A 76-year-old man, who had suffered from head trauma 1 month ago, was transferred to our hospital after falling and sustaining head trauma again. He had a history of brain infarction a few decades prior to admission and had undergone burr hole surgery for a right iCSDH 4 years earlier. He was not on anticoagulant or antiplatelet medication. He presented with slight right hemiparesis (manual muscle test [MMT] 4/5). Head computed tomography (CT) revealed a left frontoparietal iCSDH with a mild midline shift (Fig. 1A). He underwent burr hole surgery upon admission to our hospital, resulting in successful drainage of the hematoma (Fig. 1B). However, he remained unable to stand or walk unassisted 1 week after surgery. The MMT score for his legs was approximately 3-4, and his patellar tendon reflex was attenuated. The Babinski reflex was negative. Spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a SDH extending from the T11 to S2 levels (Fig. 1C-F), with no evidence of hematoma at the cervical level (Fig. 1G). CT images of iCSDH and preoperative MRI of the spine. (A) Preoperative CT image shows left iCSDH with moderate midline shift. (B) Postoperative CT image shows that iCSDH is well evacuated. Both T1 (C and E) and T2 (D and F) hyperintense subdural hematomas (arrowheads in E and F) extend from the T11 to S2 levels (arrows in C and D), compressing the cauda equina. (G) Cervical MRI displays no sign of hematoma. CT: computed tomography; iCSDH: intracranial chronic subdural hematoma; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging To improve his neurological condition, he underwent an L2-4 hemilaminectomy for hematoma evacuation 12 days after initial surgery. When the dura mater was opened, a dark-brownish liquid hematoma covered by the membrane resembling that of an iCSDH was observed (Fig. 2A, B). Subsequently, the hematoma was washed and evacuated through saline irrigation using a drainage tube. Clear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was observed through the intact, normal arachnoid membrane, with no evidence of hemorrhage in the subarachnoid space (Fig. 2C). Histopathological examination revealed that the membrane of the hematoma contained fibroblasts, collagen fibers, capillaries, macrophages, and hemosiderin (Fig. 2D). Neither hemorrhage nor apparent cell infiltration was observed in the membrane. Intraoperative photographs of spinal subdural hematoma and the histopathological images of the outer membrane of the spinal subdural hematoma. (A) Liquefied dark-colored hematoma is excreted after incision of the dura. (B) After wide opening of the dura, an outer membrane (arrow) of the hematoma is observed. (C) After rinsing the subdural hematoma, an intact arachnoid membrane (arrows) and clear cerebrospinal fluid are observed. (D) The membrane comprises fibroblasts, collagen fibers, capillaries, macrophages (arrowheads), and hemosiderin (arrows). The sections are stained by hematoxylin and eosin (original magnification, ×400). The patient was transferred to a rehabilitation hospital 9 days after lumbar surgery. Because of dementia, he lacked the willingness to rehabilitate, resulting in him being forced to use a wheelchair to move at discharge. Postoperative spinal MRI at 4 months showed no recurrence of SDH (Fig. 3A-D). Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging of sSDH. After 4 months, no recurrence of sSDH is observed (T1: A and C, T2: B and D). sSDH: spinal subdural hematoma