A 55-year-old Asian female undergone MIS-TLIF at the L3-4 and L4-5 levels due to L3 vertebral spondylolisthesis and L4-5 disc herniation, which relieved her left lumbosacral pain. Postoperative imaging confirmed correct placement of the interbody cage (Fig. 1A, B, and D). However, 5 weeks after surgery, she developed worsening low back pain accompanied by pain in the left thigh and numbness in the left calf, which were aggravated by walking or bending to the left. Physical exams revealed a positive straight leg raise test, reduced sensation in the left L5 dermatome, and weakened left extensor hallucis longus. Blood tests were normal, ruling out infection. Follow-up imaging demonstrated posterior and leftward migration of an interbody cage into the spinal canal, compressing the nerve roots (Fig. 1C, E, and F). After thorough discussion, the surgical team decided to perform a revision MIS-TLIF via the contralateral approach, aiming to reposition the migrated cage while minimizing the trauma and risk of neural injury associated with reoperation. X-ray images at postoperative day 5 (A, B) and 5 weeks (C) after the initial surgery. Cross sectional CT images of the L4-5 segment at postoperative day 5 (D) and 5 weeks (E) following the initial surgery. (F) Transverse MRI scan images of the L4-5 intervertebral space. CT = computed tomography, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. The surgical procedure was carried out following these steps: Following general anesthesia, the patient was positioned prone on a fluoroscopy surgical table. Using a C-arm X-ray machine, the L4-5 segment was localized, and the pedicle was marked. Routine disinfection and draping were performed. A guide wire for pedicle screw insertion was percutaneously inserted. A longitudinal incision of about 3 cm was made at the marked location based on the Wiltse approach. The skin, subcutaneous tissue, and deep fascia were sequentially incised, followed by direct separation of the multifidus and longest muscles to reach the articular process. Graduated dilators were then inserted, and a fixation channel device (Spine, Double Medical, China) was installed.[10] Confirmation of the correct surgical segment was done through fluoroscopy. The upper and lower facet joints were exposed, along with the upper and lower vertebral plates. Partial removal of the L4 vertebral body’s lower plate was performed until the upper edge of the ligamentum flavum was exposed. Subsequently, the ligamentum flavum was dissected, and the upper edge of the L5 vertebral body’s upper plate was completely removed. After adequate exposure of the intervertebral foramen, the dura mater and nerve roots were protected using 2 pieces of cotton and a nerve hook to expose the displaced fusion cage (Fig. 2D). A fine Kirschner wire was inserted into the small hole on the side of the fusion cage (Fig. 2A and E). The fusion cage holder was attached to the Kirschner wire and gently tapped (Fig. 2E). As tapping progressed, the position and angle of the fusion cage changed, and fluoroscopy revealed the marker of the fusion cage moving forward into the intervertebral space. Tapping continued to adjust the angle of the displaced fusion cage until the posterior edge of the fusion cage could be exposed. The Kirschner wire was then removed, and the fusion cage holder was attached to the posterior edge corner slot of the fusion cage (Fig. 2F). Continued tapping was performed to drive the displaced fusion cage into the appropriate position. To prevent the inner fusion cage from slipping backward again, a 3rd fusion cage was inserted and adjusted to snugly fit against the inner fusion cage (Fig. 2G). Pedicle screws were inserted along the guide wire at the L3-5 levels, followed by another C-arm machine fluoroscopy to ensure proper internal fixation and positioning of the fusion cage (Fig. 2B and C). Finally, cosmetic skin closure of the incision was performed using absorbable sutures. (A) After the insertion of the Kirschner wire, X-ray imaging was used for positioning. (B, C) After the surgery, X-ray images were taken from both the frontal and lateral perspectives for evaluation. (D-G) Surgical procedure schematic. Expose the intervertebral foramen by resecting the small joint and partial lamina (D). Adjust and reposition the fusion cage using the Kirschner wire (light blue) and the fusion cage holder (dark blue) (E, F). Insert the 3rd fusion cage (G). The patient experienced significant symptomatic improvement after surgery. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated complete resolution of spinal nerve compression (Fig. 3A and B). At the 1-year postoperative follow-up, the patient remained asymptomatic except for mild lower back weakness. Computed tomography scans confirmed appropriate positioning of the fusion device without significant displacement, and solid fusion was observed within the intervertebral space (Fig. 3C and D). MRI of the lumbar spine for postoperative review at 3 days post-surgery (A, B). CT scan of the lumbar spine for the 1-year postoperative follow-up (C, D). CT = computed tomography, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging.