The patient characteristics are summarized in Table 1. Three men (mean age: 84.3 ± 3.5 years) were admitted to our facility with fever and lower back pain, with blood test results showing inflammatory changes. Each patient was diagnosed with pyogenic spondylitis and an iliopsoas hypostatic abscess originating from an infected intervertebral disc based on MRI findings (Fig. 1). CT imaging revealed an ankylotic spine with DISH and pyogenic spondylitis, along with bone destruction at the endplate in the non-ankylotic region. Two patients exhibited bony bridging on both the cranial and caudal sides of the affected region (Fig. 2A and B), whereas one patient had bridging only on the cranial side (Fig. 2C). Clinical characteristics of the patients. Abbreviation: SD, standard deviation. MRI with sagittal short TI inversion recovery and axial T2-weighted images in Cases A–C. Arrowheads indicate infected lesions. CT with sagittal (sag) and coronal (cor) views in Cases A–C. Arrowheads indicate infected lesions. All patients initially received antibiotic therapy. While inflammatory markers improved, the patients remained immobile with persistent lower back pain. Consequently, surgical intervention was planned and performed to prevent prolonged bed rest and facilitate early mobilization. The surgical approach involved debridement combined with autogenous bone grafting from the rib or iliac bone via an anterior approach, followed by posterior screw and rod fixation using PESs. The posterior fixation spanned two segments above and two segments below the ankylotic region. If MRI signal changes indicated vertebral infection, conventional PSs were inserted. Two patients underwent a two-stage procedure (Fig. 3A and B), whereas one patient had a single-stage surgery (Fig. 3C). Postoperatively, all patients were able to get out of bed, and their inflammatory markers improved rapidly (Fig. 4). Effective antibiotic therapy was continued for at least 6 weeks. A CT scan performed 12-months postoperatively confirmed bony fusion of the grafted bone at the lesion site (Fig. 5A and B). Postoperative images (Cases A–C) showing anterior debridement with autogenous bone grafting and posterior fixation using PESs. Conventional PSs were placed in MRI-identified infected vertebrae. Arrowheads indicate grafted bone. Perioperative changes in serum C-reactive protein levels in all cases. ‘0’ on the horizontal axis of the graph represents the date of surgery, or the surgical period in cases of staged surgery. CT images of Cases A and B 1 year post-surgery. Arrowheads indicate bony fusion.