A 31-year-old female patient presented with a 1-month history of recurrent headaches and dizziness. In November 2020, the patient began experiencing headaches and dizziness, characterized by a sensation of fullness in the head accompanied by lightheadedness, gradually worsening over time. Therefore, in December 2020, the patient visited the Department of Neurosurgery, Fuzong Clinical Medical College of Fujian Medical University (Fuzhou, China). The patient had no history of immunosuppressive drug use, intravenous drug abuse, organ transplantation or high-risk sexual behavior. Additionally, there were no other sensory or motor deficits. Routine laboratory tests revealed that all parameters were within normal ranges, with serological tests for human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C virus being negative. Brain MRI with contrast revealed a right frontal lobe mass measuring 3.8×3.4 cm (Fig. 1). In addition, high-signal intensity on T2-weighted imaging (T2WI), a slightly low signal on T1-weighted imaging (T1WI) and a slightly high signal on diffusion-weighted imaging, with a surrounding area of patchy edema, were observed. Chest CT and abdominal ultrasound did not yield abnormalities, and no other space-occupying lesions were found in other organs. A craniotomy was subsequently performed and the lesion was completely resected. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections (4 µm thick) were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) using standard protocols. Briefly, tissues were fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin at room temperature for 24 h, followed by routine processing. Sections were stained with hematoxylin at room temperature for 5 min, rinsed, and counterstained with eosin for 1 min. Slides were examined under a bright-field microscope) revealed extensive necrosis with scattered pleomorphic cells, consistent with GBM, specifically giant cell GBM. Molecular pathological report results of the right frontal lobe (Table I) showed isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) wild-type and O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT)-positive methylation, confirming the diagnosis of GBM (World Health Organization grade IV) (8). The final diagnosis was therefore GBM (IDH wild-type and MGMT methylation-positive). The postoperative chemoradiotherapy regimen was as follows: i) Radiation therapy, 2 Gy/session 5 days per week for 6 weeks, with a total dose of 60 Gy; and ii) temozolomide, 75 mg/m2 per day 7 days per week, followed by maintenance temozolomide at 150 mg/m2 for 5 days every 28 days for a total of 6 cycles. During the chemoradiotherapy, the patient experienced grade III chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression, which improved after symptomatic treatment, such as white blood cell stimulating therapy . In total, ~4 months after diagnosis, the treating physician decided to add TTF to the standard Stupp regimen, given the patient's tolerance to the treatment. In addition, ~15 months after diagnosis, after a multidisciplinary team consultation, bevacizumab 10 mg/kg was added to the treatment plan, administered every 21 days for 13 cycles. Follow-up brain MRI scans every 2–3 months showed no recurrence of the tumor. At 23 months post-surgery, the patient contracted coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and developed severe bilateral pneumonia. After receiving a 10-day course of corticosteroid therapy (5 mg dexamethasone) for COVID-19 at the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University, the patient recovered and was transferred to the 900th Hospital of the PLA for further treatment of GBM (Fig. 2). At 25 months post-surgery, the patient developed facial swelling and bilateral lower limb edema with pain. Although the patient had received dexamethasone treatment, the potential adverse impact of corticosteroids on GBM progression could not be excluded, and recurrence or metastasis was suspected. Therefore, an MRI scan of the lumbar spine (Fig. 3C) was performed, revealing an abnormal oval-shaped signal at the L1-L2 vertebral level with dimensions of 1.6×2.4×4.3 cm. The lesion showed isointensity on T1WI, a slightly high signal on T2WI and a number of low signals at the edges. No metastasis was observed in other locations. The suspicion was that the patient was suffering from a malignant GBM with ECM, as the patient exhibited symptoms indicative of spinal metastasis, such as persistent lower back pain, recurrent flatulence and ultimately, quadriplegia. Despite the severity of the condition, the patient opted to continue treatment. At 26 months after the initial diagnosis of GBM, the patient underwent further surgery for resection of the L1-L2 vertebral canal tumor. The strong vimentin expression, high Ki-67 proliferation index, ATRX loss, p53 mutation, and retained H3K27Me3 are all consistent with glioblastoma. These features, alongside the overall pattern of marker expression, strongly suggest that the lumbar spinal metastasis is derived from a primary glioblastoma (Table II), confirming the diagnosis of ECM (Fig. 3D). Postoperatively, the patient continued to experience severe pain, with a Numerical Rating Scale (9,10) score of 9. Despite receiving an intrathecal pain pump from the Department of Anesthesiology, the pain persisted, with a Critical Care Pain Observation Tool (11) score of 8–9. The patient abandoned the treatment and opted for conservative management limited to the maintenance of vital signs, before succumbing to respiratory and cardiac arrest from multiple site (brainstem) metastasis (Fig. 4). The survival time from diagnosis to mortality was 28 months, with a survival time of 2 months from ECM to mortality.