We present the case of a 12-year-old female with a flank mass and abdominal fullness, imaging showed a gigantic expansile lytic lesion with left sided extension to the visceral organs at the level of L4 with mild scoliotic deformity. A biopsy confirmed an ABC. Patient underwent embolization and sclerotherapy which failed to achieve tumor control. Patient was taken for anterior tumor intralesional excision with posterior instrumented fusion. Postoperatively patient symptoms, deformity and her overall alignment improved. A 12-year-old female, previously healthy, presented to our spine surgery clinic with a 4-month history of left flank swelling. The swelling was painless, not preceded by trauma. Patient and parent denied symptoms of abdominal pain, change in bowel habits, weight loss, night sweats, or loss of appetite. On examination, the patient had a mass felt with superficial abdominal palpation, otherwise normal examination with intact neurological exam of upper and lower limbs. Diagnostic imaging was performed to study the nature of the lesion. Standard X-ray imaging showed mild sclerotic deformity of the lumbar spine. A CT scan revealed a 10.8 cm × 10.2 cm × 10.8 cm expansile lytic lesion in the paraspinal region originating from the left pedicle and vertebral body of L4 with extension to the abdominal viscera. MRI further characterized the lesion as a large fluid-fluid mass on the left side of the L4 vertebral body. This mass caused significant displacement of surrounding tissues and muscles, with relatively minimal neural compression. These imaging findings led to the suspicion of an ABC while considering other differential diagnoses such as telangiectatic osteosarcoma and giant cell tumor. Biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of ABC. Figures 1-4 show radiological and histological findings upon presentation. Whole spine X-rays showing lytic lesion of L4 with mild scoliotic deformity in addition to a soft tissue shadow seen in left flank. Computed tomography scan showing 10.8 cm × 10.2 cm × 10.8 cm paraspinal mass with a lytic lesion of L4. Axial and sagittal images of L4 showing thin-walled cavities with fluid-fluid levels characteristic of ABC. ABC, aneurysmal bone cyst. Histopathology slides of ABC. (A) Hematoxylin and eosins-stained section showing pseudocystic spaces with blood and fibrosis 40×. (B) Hematoxylin and eosins-stained section showing pseudocystic spaces with blood and fibrosis 100×. (C) There are areas with reticulated chondroid-like material 40×. ABC, aneurysmal bone cyst. The patient underwent ultrasound (US)-guided embolization and sclerotherapy performed by the interventional radiology. Post-procedure MRI showed progression of the expansile lesion in the L4 vertebral body with mass effect on the surrounding tissues. Embolization and sclerotherapy showed low effectiveness. Due to persistent compression on internal organs, and the eventual possibility that with time progressive calcification of the tumor inside the abdomen might compromise internal organs such as uterus expansion during future pregnancies, surgical intervention was deemed necessary. The parents were counseled and it was opted for tumor excision with spinal instrumentation. Case was discussed in a multidisciplinary team meeting, and surgical excision was done with the aid of urology and pediatric surgery teams. The patient was placed supine on a regular table. A left ureteric stent was placed by pediatric urology team. Later, pediatric surgery team joined, and an access through a midline laparotomy incision with trans-peritoneal approach was performed, and the tumor was exposed. The tumor was released from all the surrounding tissues including the overlying iliopsoas muscle. A complete extended intralesional resection was performed. Various samples were sent for histopathology. The disc space of L3–4 and L4–5 was removed from the left side and cage preparation followed. A Mesh cage was placed with bone graft. The cage had a satisfying primary stability. By then the first stage of surgery was completed. Figures 5-7 show intraoperative gross images of the tumor. The tumor gross appearance intra-operatively. (A) Tumor before violating its cortex. (B) Gross appearance during intralesional resection. LT, left; RT, right. Gross appearances of tumor after full tumor resection from anterior approach. Intraoperative instrumentation using mesh cage and posterior pedicle screws and rods. Afterwards, On the same setting, the patient was positioned prone on a Jackson table for the second stage of procedure. With a traditional posterior approach, a subperiosteal dissection was performed. A short segment instrumentation from L3 to L5 was performed, skipping left L4 given that the tumor occupied the left pedicle and part of the lamina. The remaining posterior part of the tumor was resected protecting L4 nerve root, that included L4 left hemilaminectomy and left sided pedicle removal. Patient tolerated the surgery well. Surgical time was 5.5 hours, with an estimated blood loss of 1,000 mL. Patient postoperatively was shifted to pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) for observation. Patient had an uneventful hospital stay with satisfactory recovery; she was discharged day 6 postoperatively. Histopathological samples came back to be consistent with ABC. Figure 7 displays intraoperative fixation. Patient was followed at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years postoperatively. Patient had good recovery and stable implant fixation. Patient postoperative CT confirmed full excision of the tumor and regular MRIs done during the follow-up visits confirmed no recurrence of the ABC. Figure 8 shows postoperative X-rays, CT and MRI. Postoperative imaging. (A) Standing AP and lateral views X-ray showing satisfactory alignment. (B) CT showing proper positioning of construct. (C) MRI showing full tumor resection seen. AP, anteroposterior; CT, computed tomography; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent for publication of this case report and accompanying images was not obtained from the patient or the relatives after all possible attempts were made. As no figure reveal identification of the patient, a written consent for disclosure of patient identity is not required.