An 80-year-old woman with a history of bronchial asthma and allergic rhinitis experienced muscle pain in both thighs three months before admission, which later spread to her shoulders and upper arms. She developed a fever of 38°C and IC. A few days later, she presented to our emergency department with muscle weakness, primarily affecting both lower legs, and was admitted. On physical examination, she had spontaneous pain and tenderness in the biceps, triceps, and quadriceps bilaterally. Manual muscle testing yielded a score of four in both the upper and lower limbs. She had no abdominal pain or rash, and the bilateral dorsalis pedis arteries were palpable. Her IC was unaffected by postural changes, and she could walk only approximately 6 m because of leg pain. Laboratory tests revealed eosinophilia (4,212 /μL), elevated creatine kinase levels (CK, 505 U/L), C-reactive protein (2.25 mg/dL), and immunoglobulin E (5,024 IU/mL). CK-myoglobin, electrolytes, and thyroid function were normal. As summarized in Table 1, immunological tests showed weakly positive antinuclear antibodies (speckled pattern, 1:40), while all disease-specific autoantibodies were negative. Rheumatoid factor was positive (160.9 IU/mL); however, the absence of joint symptoms and the lack of inflammatory findings on joint ultrasonography made rheumatoid arthritis unlikely. Laboratory Data on Admission. Ab: antibody; AMA-M2: anti-mitochondrial antibody type M2; ANCA: anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody; ARS: aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase; CCP: cyclic citrullinated peptide; CH50: 50% hemolytic complement activity; ds-DNA: double-stranded DNA; Ig: immunoglobulin; MDA-5: melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5; MPO: myeloperoxidase; PR3: proteinase 3; RF: rheumatoid factor; RNP: ribonucleoprotein; Sm: Smith; SS: Sjögren’s syndrome; TIF1-γ: transcriptional intermediary factor 1-γ. MRI with short tau inversion recovery sequences demonstrated diffuse high-signal intensity in the muscles of both upper limbs, shoulders, and lower limbs (Figure 1A). A biopsy specimen from the right biceps brachii, identified as a high-signal area on MRI, showed inflammatory cell infiltration, predominantly eosinophils and lymphocytes, within the arterial walls (Figure 1B and 1C). Elastica Masson staining revealed disruption of the external elastic lamina and perivascular collagen fiber proliferation (Figure 1D). MRI and pathology. (A) MRI with short tau inversion recovery sequences of the right upper arm shows high signal intensity in the skeletal muscle. (B, C) H & E staining of the right biceps brachii reveals inflammatory cell infiltration, predominantly eosinophils and lymphocytes, within the walls of arteries. (D) Elastica Masson staining of the right biceps brachii; the arrow indicates a disruption of the external elastic lamina, with proliferation of collagen fibers surrounding the blood vessels. H & E: hematoxylin-eosin; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. She had no history of lifestyle-related disease or smoking. Based on her clinical history, fever, muscle pain, eosinophilia, MRI findings, and histology, she was diagnosed with EGPA and associated skeletal muscle involvement. To evaluate possible comorbidities, we performed a non-contrast computed tomography (CT) scan, which showed no comorbidities, including calcification in the aorta or lower-limb arteries. Treatment with prednisolone 20 mg/day (0.5 mg/kg/day) led to rapid improvement. By day six, she was able to walk 12 m; by day 10, 30 m; and by day 12, she could ascend and descend stairs without difficulty.