An 82-year-old retired Japanese man (height, 167 cm; weight, 53.2 kg) experienced sudden vomiting, loss of consciousness, and incontinence during dinner. The patient was then transported by ambulance to a local general hospital. Six days earlier, he had experienced pain in the left sciatic nerve. Radiographic examination at the initial visit showed age-related degenerative changes (Figure 1). a. Anterior-to-posterior view; b. Lateral view Radiographs demonstrated only age-related changes without any abnormal findings The patient had comorbidities, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, asbestos lung, and bipolar head arthroplasty of the right hip joint following a femoral neck fracture. No dental cavities or full dentures were found. The body temperature was 37.8 °C. Brain computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed negative findings. Laboratory data revealed a white blood cell (WBC) count of 7,800/μL (reference range: 3,300-8,600/μL; neutrophils, 89.3% (42.4-75.0%); lymphocytes, 3.8% (16.5-49.5%); eosinophils, 0.4% (0.0-8.5%); basophils, 0.1% (0.0-2.5%); monocytes, 6.4% (2.0-10.0%)), C-reactive protein (CRP) level of 10.85 mg/dL (reference range: <0.14 mg/dL), and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of 7.9% (reference range: 4.6-6.2%). Urinary tract infection and COVID-19 infection were ruled out. Echocardiography revealed no evidence of infective endocarditis. Whole-body CT did not reveal the source of the fever. The patient was diagnosed with a fever of unknown origin and was treated with piperacillin/tazobactam (PIPC/TAZ). The next day, the fever spiked to 40.0 °C, and the vital signs were: P 93/min, BP 134/43 mmHg, RR 16/min, SpO₂ 97%. After three days’ admission, the body temperature decreased to 37.8 °C, with a CRP level of 23.53 mg/dL and a WBC count of 10,400/μL (neutrophils, 89.3%; lymphocytes, 5.0%; eosinophils, 0.1%; basophils, 0.2%; monocytes, 6.4%). Gram-positive rods were detected after seven days of blood culture. Using a mass spectrometry technique, especially the MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry system, by Bruker Daltonics (Yokohama, Japan) with the Biotyper software, version 3.1 (Bruker Daltonics), the isolate was identified as E. rhusiopathiae. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing showed that the isolate was susceptible to PCG (penicillin G), ABPC (ampicillin), MINO (minocycline), CEZ (cefazolin), CTM (cefotiam), SBT/CPZ (sulbactam/cefoperazone), FMOX (flomoxef), EM (erythromycin), CLDM (clindamycin), FOM (Fosfomycin), CPFX (ciprofloxacin), LVFX (levofloxacin), CFPM (cefepime), and MEPM (meropenem), but resistant to GM (gentamicin) and VCM (vancomycin). According to the results of susceptibility testing, the antibiotic was changed to ABPC. Lower back pain was observed during treatment. Although radiography showed almost normal findings, CT of the lumbar spine was performed and revealed a lytic lesion at the L4/5-disc level. For further evaluation of this lesion, enhanced MRI was subsequently performed, which demonstrated discitis and epidural abscesses (Figure 2). a. CT before surgery. Lytic lesions were detected in the L4/5 intervertebral disc (white arrow). b. MRI before surgery. An abscess was detected at L4/5 (white arrow). After being diagnosed with spondylitis, the patient was transferred to a university hospital. The day of the transfer, a board-certified dermatologist conducted a thorough skin examination and confirmed the absence of any skin infection, such as scabies, ticks, or lice. The day after the transfer, L4/5/S1 laminoplasty surgery was performed. During the surgery, a subdural abscess compressing the dura mater of the nerve root was removed. Postoperatively, the pain decreased. Seven days after surgery, the inflammatory parameters improved: CRP levels decreased to 0.79 mg/dL and WBC count to 3,470/μL (neutrophils, 69.1%; lymphocytes, 20.5%; eosinophils, 3.7%; basophils, 1.2%; monocytes, 5.5%), with no symptoms of infection. On hospital day 24, after resolution of inflammation, the intravenous ampicillin/sulbactam (ABPC/SBT) was switched to oral clindamycin (CLDM) 450 mg/day. The patient did not experience spinal complications such as palsy or dysuria. Twenty days after the surgery, the patient was transferred to a rehabilitation hospital. Ninety-two days after surgery, the patient was discharged and could walk unaided. During hospitalization, the family hired a cleanup company to maintain cleanliness at the patient’s home. On postoperative day 125, MRI revealed no abscesses. CT imaging showed a trend toward union. At 195 days post-surgery, radiography indicated slight disc height narrowing, yet the patient remained asymptomatic. Five months post-surgery, no typical changes were observed. One year and six months post-surgery, there were no symptoms of pyogenic spondylitis recurrence. The overall clinical course of this case, including clinical events, antibiotic administration, diagnostic procedures, and outcomes, is summarized in Table 1. This case underscores the clinical significance of recognizing the progression from fever of unknown origin to bacteremia, identification of E. rhusiopathiae, and subsequent spinal infection, which may facilitate earlier diagnosis and management in similar cases. Timeline of this case, showing clinical events and antimicrobial agents used. Clinical course of this case, showing progression from fever of unknown origin to bacteremia and spinal infection. PIPC/TAZ, piperacillin/tazobactam; ABPC, ampicillin; ABPC/SBT, ampicillin/sulbactam; CLDM, clindamycin.