This is a 60-year-old man, a known case of NF-1, who presented with flank pain 8 months before surgery. As an incidental finding in the sonographic evaluation of the urinary system, he was diagnosed and managed as a massive pleural effusion for months until referred to our tertiary center. After further evaluations, a right thoracic huge meningocele was diagnosed. Posterolateral approach for laminectomy, costotransversectomy, ligation of the ectatic sleeves of the spinal nerve roots, cyst resection, dural repair, and spinal fusion was utilized. A pleural and lumbar draining tube was applied for 8 days. The patient recovered completely from his respiratory problems, without any neurological deficit or catastrophic events. A 60-year-old man with NF-1 was referred to Namazi Hospital for management of massive pleural effusion. He presented with flank pain 8 months before. During the sonographic evaluation of his kidneys, a massive pleural effusion was incidentally detected on the right side. Initial evaluations in the primary and secondary medical centers with physical examination, chest X-ray, and chest CT, revealed abnormal spinal curvature and a huge opaque and hyperdense lesion in the right side of his chest. The primary impression was massive pleural effusion based on NF-1. He went under diagnostic and therapeutic pleural tapping multiple times. The analysis of the fluid for cell count, cytology, microbiology, culture, and biochemical perspectives was negative for any of the usual etiologies of massive pleural effusion (paraneoplastic, hemothorax, transudative, and so on). The symptoms gradually developed with dyspnea, positional headache, and chest pain, which were more severe after each episode of pleural tapping. In our center, the chest X-ray and CT scan were reviewed. Lower thoracic scoliosis at the T7-T10 level, with the apex at the T8-T9 level and convexity to the right side, was confirmed (Figure 1). In the chest CT-scan, scalloping of the posterior wall of T7-T10 vertebral bodies, widening of T8-T10 intervertebral foramina on the right side, and expansion of the spinal canal at the T7-T10 level were also documented (Figure 2).Figure 1The antero-posterior chest X-ray shows lower thoracic scoliosis at the T7-T10 level, with the apex at the T8-T9 level and convexity to the right side, right-sided chest opacity (unilateral white lung), and deviation of bronchi to the left side (white arrow).Figure 2Cross-view of the axial-sagittal chest CT-scan. The scalloping of the posterior wall of the vertebral bodies, widening of the spinal canal, and right intervertebral foramina of T7-T10 (a-e) level is indicated. The antero-posterior chest X-ray shows lower thoracic scoliosis at the T7-T10 level, with the apex at the T8-T9 level and convexity to the right side, right-sided chest opacity (unilateral white lung), and deviation of bronchi to the left side (white arrow). Cross-view of the axial-sagittal chest CT-scan. The scalloping of the posterior wall of the vertebral bodies, widening of the spinal canal, and right intervertebral foramina of T7-T10 (a-e) level is indicated. The patient went under further imaging evaluations with chest sonography and thoracic MRI. In the T2-weighted sequence of his thoracic MRI (Figure 3), high signal intensity of the content of the cyst, in continuation with the CSF of the dural sac, appeared at the T7-T10 level. After sessions of an interdisciplinary conference and reviewing all the gathered data from the evaluations, a huge thoracic lateral meningocele in the right pleural space was hypothesized. In order to confirm the diagnosis of meningocele, as ß-2-Transferrin was not available, we chose to perform radionuclide cisternography in order to prove that the content of the cyst is CSF (Figure 4). The single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) also confirmed that this connection is through the right T8-T10 intervertebral foramina. After reviewing the literature on the subject in the spine surgery team of the neurosurgery group, the posterolateral approach was taken.Figure 3Cross-view of the axial-sagittal T-2 weighted sequence of chest MRI. High signal intensity of the content of the cyst was obviously present at the T7-T10 level (a-d), in continuation with the CSF of the dural sac (black arrow in “c”).Figure 4Pre-operative radionuclide cisternography: Anterior and posterior whole-body images (a) obtained 2 hours after injection of 10 mCi 99mTc-DTPA via lumbar puncture, revealed the radiotracer accumulation in the spinal column till a mid-thoracic level, where a connection was seen through the right pleural space, which abnormally contained the radiotracer. The 3-dimensional SPECT (upper row), low-dose CT (middle row), and fused SPECT/low-dose CT (lower row) (b) localized the level of abnormal CSF connection between the spinal and right pleural space at the T8-T10 right intervertebral foramina (white arrows). The images also showed ectasia of the spinal column at multiple adjacent levels; however, there is a little ascent of radiotracer above the level of leakage, evaluating upper parts less reliable. Cross-view of the axial-sagittal T-2 weighted sequence of chest MRI. High signal intensity of the content of the cyst was obviously present at the T7-T10 level (a-d), in continuation with the CSF of the dural sac (black arrow in “c”). Pre-operative radionuclide cisternography: Anterior and posterior whole-body images (a) obtained 2 hours after injection of 10 mCi 99mTc-DTPA via lumbar puncture, revealed the radiotracer accumulation in the spinal column till a mid-thoracic level, where a connection was seen through the right pleural space, which abnormally contained the radiotracer. The 3-dimensional SPECT (upper row), low-dose CT (middle row), and fused SPECT/low-dose CT (lower row) (b) localized the level of abnormal CSF connection between the spinal and right pleural space at the T8-T10 right intervertebral foramina (white arrows). The images also showed ectasia of the spinal column at multiple adjacent levels; however, there is a little ascent of radiotracer above the level of leakage, evaluating upper parts less reliable.