A 78-year-old woman presented with a three-month history of right thigh and groin pain, numbness, and hip flexion weakness. Her history included several lumbar surgeries, including an L3-4 transforaminal interbody fusion at another hospital seven years before admission, as well as L1-S1 lateral interbody fusion, posterior fusion, and bilateral sacroiliac joint fusion at our hospital two years before admission. She had also undergone bilateral total hip replacement two and three years before admission, respectively. Physical examination revealed hip flexion weakness of 4/5. Her pain and numbness coincided with the L3 or L4 dermatome. Radiographic and computed tomography (CT) images (Figure 1) showed cement leakage around a right L4 screw within the right psoas. Magnetic resonance imaging showed no other findings accounting for her symptoms. We chose to perform cement removal. For a minimally invasive procedure, we used a three-dimensional navigation robotic system with an ExcelsiusGPS (EGPS) (Globus Medical, Inc., Audubon, PA) to determine the optimal skin incision and guide psoas dissection. The patient was placed in the left decubitus position in the CT gantry. The reference was inserted into the posterior superior iliac spine. Intraoperative CT was acquired for navigation and robotic arm guidance, facilitating the virtual trajectory planning to target the leaked cement (Figure 2A). Under this guidance, an approximately 6 cm skin incision was made in the right abdominal wall using the robotic arm, and the psoas was exposed. Subsequently, A dilator was inserted via the robotic arm, and a retractor (MaXcess, Globus Medical, Inc.) was secured onto the psoas muscle. A navigation probe was used to precisely locate the cement (Figure 2B). The leaked cement was found compressing a branch of the lumbar plexus (Figure 2C) and was carefully removed in a single piece after blunt dissection of the affected nerve (Figure 3). The patient experienced immediate relief of groin and thigh pain and was discharged the following day. Three months after surgery, her hip flexion weakness remained unchanged. (A) Trajectory plan using EGPS. (B) A small skin incision and retractor placement. (C) A small dissection of the psoas and the leaked cement mass within the psoas. The branch of lumbar plexus passed directly above the cement mass (arrows, the cement mass). EGPS, ExcelsiusGPS The leaked part was excised en bloc.