We report the case of conjoined twins diagnosed prenatally by ultrasound, who, on radiological investigation after birth, were identified as pygopagus twins with fusion of the lumbosacral vertebral canal and a “U”-shaped spinal union. They underwent successful separation surgery using neuromonitoring. A 20-year-old mother, with no prior comorbidities, in her second pregnancy, was diagnosed by ultrasound at 9 weeks with a monochorionic monozygotic twin gestation exhibiting incomplete division (conjoined at the sacral region). The patients were delivered through emergency cesarean section at 33 weeks and 2 days due to altered blood flow in fetus 2 as detected by Doppler ultrasound. The APGAR scores were 4/7 for twin 1 and 1/6/8 for twin 2. At birth, the twins were identified as conjoined twins fused at the lumbosacral and perineal regions, presenting with fused male genitalia [Figure 1]. Twins conjoined at the lumbosacral region, consistent with pygopagus conjoined twins, presenting with fused male genitalia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the neuraxis confirmed fusion at the lumbosacral region, with a shared vertebral canal and a U-shaped fused spinal cord. Twin 2 presented with microcephaly. No radiological abnormalities were observed in the brain of Twin 1 [Figure 2].Computed tomography (CT) of the spine demonstrated posterior vertebral arches at the lumbosacral junction in close proximity but without evidence of osseous fusion [Figure 3]. Twin 1 exhibited partial ossification of 12 thoracic vertebrae, five lumbar vertebrae, and five sacral vertebrae. Twin 2 showed partial ossification of 12 thoracic vertebrae, five lumbar vertebrae, and a single sacral vertebra (S1). At the lumbosacral junction, no bony fusion of the posterior elements was observed; however, continuity of the spinal canal and dural sac was present from the level of L5. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging, coronal sections. (a) Shared dural sac. (b) U-shaped fusion of the spinal cord with evidence of tethering. (a and b) Computed tomography of the spine, coronal sections. Absence of bone fusion between the two twins. As decided by the multidisciplinary team, surgical separation was scheduled for 6 months of age, involving collaboration between neurosurgery, pediatric surgery, pediatric urology, plastic surgery, and neurophysiology teams. The procedure was thoroughly planned during multidisciplinary meetings and rehearsed using mannequins (common dolls joined together) to optimize the positioning of surgical equipment and determine the sequence of team interventions. The neurosurgical team initiated the separation. The twins were placed in the prone position, with the thorax, abdomen, and head supported, to allow exposure of the spinal region. In collaboration with the plastic surgery team, the initial skin incision line was defined. A midline skin incision was then performed in the craniocaudal direction [Figure 4]. (a) Surgical positioning. (b) Skin incision site marked in red. Dissection proceeded through the subcutaneous tissue and muscular fasciae until exposure of the dural sacs. The dural sacs of both twins and the site of dural fusion were identified. Adjacent to the fusion site, an extradural lipoma was observed. Partial resection of the extradural lipoma was performed [Figure 5]. Site of dural fusion and extradural lipoma. Under microscopic magnification, a transverse dural opening was performed. A fused spinal cord and an intradural lipoma adherent to the spinal cord and filum terminale were identified. Following direct neurostimulation, the filum terminale was sectioned, and partial resection of the intradural lipoma was performed. During lipoma resection, a cyst containing sebaceous material was identified, consistent with a dermoid cyst, was identified and excised [Figure 6]. (a) Fused spinal cord and intradural lipom. (b) Dermoid cyst visualized during lipoma resection. With the aid of neurostimulation, the site for cord section was determined. The midline of the spinal cord elicited positive stimulation for both twins. The decision was made to section the cord at a right paramedian location. Following cord transection, neurulation was performed using 5-0 Prolene sutures [Figure 7]. (a) Neurostimulation to determine the site of cord transection. (b) Appearance following spinal cord separation. The remaining dura mater was sectioned at the level of the cord transection. A watertight dural closure was achieved. Due to insufficient dura mater to close both dural defects, duraplasty with bovine pericardium was performed in Twin 1. Fibrin sealant was applied to the sutures [Figures 8 and 9]. (a) Final separation of the posterior dura mater after cord division. (b) Appearance after watertight dural closure. Final macroscopic aspect. The patients had a satisfactory postoperative course. Histopathological examination of the excised lesions confirmed the diagnoses of dermoid cyst and lipoma. Twin 1 demonstrated good lower limb mobility and full ambulation. Twin 2, due to microcephaly, was non-ambulatory. Neither twin required additional neurosurgical interventions during 1 year of follow-up.