A 23-year-old male presented with swelling over the lower back region since birth and chronic low back pain with increasing intensity for a month. Pain is a dull aching, increasing in intensity (7/10 in visual analogue scale) in the lower back for the past 1 month. The pain is localized to the lumbar region, nonradiating, and not associated with any aggravating or relieving factors. He complains of the presence of a swelling over the lower back, which is fleshy (fatty subcutaneous masses) since birth. The swelling has remained relatively unchanged in size over the years. There is no history of discharge, ulceration, or infection at the site. There was no history of tingling or burning sensations in limbs, weakness, or bowel and bladder involvement. There are no constitutional symptoms such as weight loss or appetite change. His medical, surgical, and birth developmental history was unremarkable. On examination, the patient is conscious, alert, and oriented. His vital signs were stable, and general examination was unremarkable. Local examination: About 2 × 2 cm reddish bluish fleshy midline swelling noted over the lumbar region, shown in Fig. 1A. It is nontender, soft in consistency. There was no visible sinus or discharge, signs of infection, bruit on auscultation, or local rise of temperature. Neuro examination was unremarkable. Motor examination revealed symmetrical muscle bulk, tone was equal and symmetric in all flexor and extensor groups of muscles. Muscle power was 5/5 in both the upper and lower extremities. Bilateral deep tendon reflexes were normal and equal. Clonus was absent. Systemic examination revealed no abnormalities.Fig. 1A-G(A) Clinical photograph of the lower back (lumbar region) showing a midline reddish-fleshy lesion without audible bruit, suggestive of an angiomatous skin lesion associated with a dorsal dermal sinus. (B) T2 weighted axial view showing hemi-cords within a single dural sac without spur and septum; from lower border of L4 to lower border of L5 vertebral level−diastematomyelia Type II. (C) T2 weighted axial at L5-S1 level and (D) T2 weighted sagittal and (E) STIR sagittal view image showing neural-lipoma, hemi placode (as shown by arrows) is extended within the posterior bony defect (not extending beyond skin surface) at L5-S1 level. (F) T2 weighted axial and (G) STIR sagittal view shows conus medullaris extending below the level of L2 vertebra, projecting all the way to S3-S4 level (one hemi cord) and L5-S1 level (other hemi cord with spina bifida) as shown by the black arrow. At S4 level, the hemi cord is attached to an attenuating mass showing T2 high signal intensity, which is suppressed on STIR image shown by red arrows, suggestive of tethered cord with film terminale lipoma. A linear T2/STIR high signal intensity tract is noted extending from the skin surface to the bony defect at L5-S1 level, shown by green arrows, suggestive of a dorsal dermal sinus.Figure A (A) Clinical photograph of the lower back (lumbar region) showing a midline reddish-fleshy lesion without audible bruit, suggestive of an angiomatous skin lesion associated with a dorsal dermal sinus. (B) T2 weighted axial view showing hemi-cords within a single dural sac without spur and septum; from lower border of L4 to lower border of L5 vertebral level−diastematomyelia Type II. (C) T2 weighted axial at L5-S1 level and (D) T2 weighted sagittal and (E) STIR sagittal view image showing neural-lipoma, hemi placode (as shown by arrows) is extended within the posterior bony defect (not extending beyond skin surface) at L5-S1 level. (F) T2 weighted axial and (G) STIR sagittal view shows conus medullaris extending below the level of L2 vertebra, projecting all the way to S3-S4 level (one hemi cord) and L5-S1 level (other hemi cord with spina bifida) as shown by the black arrow. At S4 level, the hemi cord is attached to an attenuating mass showing T2 high signal intensity, which is suppressed on STIR image shown by red arrows, suggestive of tethered cord with film terminale lipoma. A linear T2/STIR high signal intensity tract is noted extending from the skin surface to the bony defect at L5-S1 level, shown by green arrows, suggestive of a dorsal dermal sinus. The laboratory exams of the patient (CBC, vitamin D3, ESR, CRP, LFT, RFT, HLA-B27) were within normal ranges. A tuberculin skin test was negative. The x-ray of the Lumbosacral spine was normal. With this, all the common differentials of back pain, mechanical, infectious, inflammatory, and malignancy, were ruled out, and an MRI was planned for the whole spine. MRI revealed the following findings: Axial T2-weighted images demonstrated two hemi-cords within a single dural sac extending from the lower border of L4 to the lower border of L5 with no evidence of osseous or fibrous spur or septum consistent with Type II diastematomyelia (Fig. 1B). A T2 hyperintense, fat-signal lesion is seen extending into a posterior bony defect at the L5-S1 level, representing a neural lipoma (Fig. 1C-1E). The hemi-placode is seen extending into this defect, but there is no cutaneous extension (Fig. 1C-1E). The conus medullaris is low-lying, with one hemi cord extending to the S3-S4 level, and the other terminating at the L5-S1 level, associated with spina bifida (Fig. 1F and 1G). At S4, the hemi cord is seen attached to a T2 hyperintense, STIR-suppressing fat-containing lesion, consistent with a filum terminale lipoma and tethered cord (Fig. 1F and 1G). A linear hyperintense tract on T2 and STIR sequences is noted, extending from the skin surface to the posterior spinal canal at L5-S1, consistent with a dorsal dermal sinus (Fig. 1F and 1G). Based on clinical evaluation and MRI findings, a diagnosis of diastematomyelia Type II with associated hemimyelocele, tethered cord, filum terminale lipoma, and dorsal dermal sinus was established. A neurosurgical consultation was obtained, and a thorough neurological examination revealed no focal neurological deficits. The patient was initially managed conservatively with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for symptomatic relief of pain. After detailed evaluation, a surgical plan was formulated in view of radiological findings and anatomical abnormalities and discussed with the patient and his parties regarding the surgery and its outcomes. The surgical procedure included a duratomy, myelotomy, decompressive laminectomy, and excision of the bony spur, followed by duraplasty. Additionally, untethering of the filum terminale, interlaminar space dissection, and complete excision of the dermoid sinus tract were planned. These steps were aimed at relieving spinal cord tethering and preventing future neurological deterioration. The patient and family were thoroughly counselled regarding the nature of the condition, the rationale for surgical intervention, expected outcomes, and potential complications. Detailed explanations of the surgical steps, the need for postoperative rehabilitation, and the importance of physiotherapy were provided. But the patient, being asymptomatic and knowing all the outcomes, cost of surgery, and rehabilitation duration, opted against the surgery, wanted to follow up regularly, and proceed with surgery upon further difficulties in the future. Thus, the patient was educated about danger signs, including worsening back pain, new-onset neurological symptoms, bowel or bladder dysfunction, and signs of infection, for which immediate medical attention would be necessary. Regular follow-up visits were scheduled to monitor neurological status, and neurology was intact with subsequent evaluations to date. A 23-year-old male presented with swelling over the lower back region since birth and chronic low back pain with increasing intensity for a month. Pain is a dull aching, increasing in intensity (7/10 in visual analogue scale) in the lower back for the past 1 month. The pain is localized to the lumbar region, nonradiating, and not associated with any aggravating or relieving factors. He complains of the presence of a swelling over the lower back, which is fleshy (fatty subcutaneous masses) since birth. The swelling has remained relatively unchanged in size over the years. There is no history of discharge, ulceration, or infection at the site. There was no history of tingling or burning sensations in limbs, weakness, or bowel and bladder involvement. There are no constitutional symptoms such as weight loss or appetite change. His medical, surgical, and birth developmental history was unremarkable. On examination, the patient is conscious, alert, and oriented. His vital signs were stable, and general examination was unremarkable. Local examination: About 2 × 2 cm reddish bluish fleshy midline swelling noted over the lumbar region, shown in Fig. 1A. It is nontender, soft in consistency. There was no visible sinus or discharge, signs of infection, bruit on auscultation, or local rise of temperature. Neuro examination was unremarkable. Motor examination revealed symmetrical muscle bulk, tone was equal and symmetric in all flexor and extensor groups of muscles. Muscle power was 5/5 in both the upper and lower extremities. Bilateral deep tendon reflexes were normal and equal. Clonus was absent. Systemic examination revealed no abnormalities.Fig. 1A-G(A) Clinical photograph of the lower back (lumbar region) showing a midline reddish-fleshy lesion without audible bruit, suggestive of an angiomatous skin lesion associated with a dorsal dermal sinus. (B) T2 weighted axial view showing hemi-cords within a single dural sac without spur and septum; from lower border of L4 to lower border of L5 vertebral level−diastematomyelia Type II. (C) T2 weighted axial at L5-S1 level and (D) T2 weighted sagittal and (E) STIR sagittal view image showing neural-lipoma, hemi placode (as shown by arrows) is extended within the posterior bony defect (not extending beyond skin surface) at L5-S1 level. (F) T2 weighted axial and (G) STIR sagittal view shows conus medullaris extending below the level of L2 vertebra, projecting all the way to S3-S4 level (one hemi cord) and L5-S1 level (other hemi cord with spina bifida) as shown by the black arrow. At S4 level, the hemi cord is attached to an attenuating mass showing T2 high signal intensity, which is suppressed on STIR image shown by red arrows, suggestive of tethered cord with film terminale lipoma. A linear T2/STIR high signal intensity tract is noted extending from the skin surface to the bony defect at L5-S1 level, shown by green arrows, suggestive of a dorsal dermal sinus.Figure A (A) Clinical photograph of the lower back (lumbar region) showing a midline reddish-fleshy lesion without audible bruit, suggestive of an angiomatous skin lesion associated with a dorsal dermal sinus. (B) T2 weighted axial view showing hemi-cords within a single dural sac without spur and septum; from lower border of L4 to lower border of L5 vertebral level−diastematomyelia Type II. (C) T2 weighted axial at L5-S1 level and (D) T2 weighted sagittal and (E) STIR sagittal view image showing neural-lipoma, hemi placode (as shown by arrows) is extended within the posterior bony defect (not extending beyond skin surface) at L5-S1 level. (F) T2 weighted axial and (G) STIR sagittal view shows conus medullaris extending below the level of L2 vertebra, projecting all the way to S3-S4 level (one hemi cord) and L5-S1 level (other hemi cord with spina bifida) as shown by the black arrow. At S4 level, the hemi cord is attached to an attenuating mass showing T2 high signal intensity, which is suppressed on STIR image shown by red arrows, suggestive of tethered cord with film terminale lipoma. A linear T2/STIR high signal intensity tract is noted extending from the skin surface to the bony defect at L5-S1 level, shown by green arrows, suggestive of a dorsal dermal sinus.