A 68-year-old woman presented to our emergency department with the complaint of progressive paraparesis, which had been experiencing for a month, along with a sensation of numbness in all four limbs and intense burning pain in the lumbosacral area. Her personal and family medical history was unremarkable. She presented with spastic paraparesis, which allowed her to walk independently with support. Mild information ataxia was also observed. Her strength was rated 3+ for all lower limb movements. The right upper limb was also weak and rated as 3/5 for all movements. Deep tendon reflexes were brisk in the lower and upper right limbs and rated 3+. Search for the Babinski sign on the right disclosed extension. Vibration sensation was deficient from the hips down. Abdominal reflexes were absent. However, the pinprick sensation was unaffected. Subacute progressive lower-limb weakness with brisk reflexes may arise either from myelopathy or from a disease affecting the frontal lobe. MRI of the spinal cord revealed two long lesions, which almost completely involved the posterior and lateral cord media from C3 to C6 and from D1 to D5 (Fig. 1a, 1c) [6]. On the brain MRI, some punctiform “sugar-like” areas of contrast enhancement affecting the superior cerebellar folia were seen. These findings suggested either a long-lasting infection or an immune-mediated disease of the central nervous system (CNS) [7,8]. Routine blood tests were normal, as were inflammatory biomarkers and both infection and autoimmune panels. Blood lymphocyte subpopulations showed a reduction in CD8 suppressors (10.45%, n.v.: 15-35) and an increase in the CD4/CD8 ratio (6.2, n.v.: 1.2-2.5). A diagnostic lumbar puncture demonstrated normal opening pressure, 80 cells/µl (85% lymphocytes, 15% plasma cells), 100 mg/dl proteins (n.v. up to 40 mg/dl), and normal glucose and lactate values. Oligoclonal bands were not observed. HIV, venereal disease research laboratory (VDRL), and Treponema pallidum haemagglutination (TPHA) tests were negative. IgM and IgG titres for Borrelia burgdorferi were normal. Polymerase chain reaction failed to detect the presence of DNA from all herpes viruses, including Coxsackie, enterovirus, JC virus, Parvovirus B19, Adenovirus, Parotite virus, Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae, Listeria monocytogenes, E. coli K1, and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Paraneoplastic and cell-surface-directed antibodies were also ruled out. Examination of the cell sediment from the CSF revealed the presence of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and histocytes, but not malignant cells. Anti-aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-IgG and anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-IgG were evaluated using cell-based assay and were not detected in the serum. Total-body computed tomography (CT) ruled out the presence of solid malignant masses, abscesses, or adenopathies. Initial MRI showing “the flame” and the “elongated drops” signs (a; post-Gd-T1-w sagittal image) together with “sugar-like” lesions of leptomeningeal meninges (b; post-Gd-T1-w coronal image) and tumefactive appearance of the spinal cord (c; post-Gd-T1-w axial image) raised suspicion for solid tumour, satellite metastases and carcinomatous leptomeningitis. Later MRI (three months later) showed two LETMs (d; post-Gd-T1-w), contrast-enhancement of folia leptomeninges (e, post-Gd-T1-w), and the “trident” sign (f; post-Gd-T1-w). Post-Gd-T1-w: post-gadolinium-T1-weighed. 18-F-Fluorodexoxyglucose Positron Emitting Tomography (FDG-PET) demonstrating the presence of overactive lymph nodes at the mediastinal, hilar level of the right lower pulmonary bronchus and at subcarinal level (g,h). Biopsy of thoracic lymph nodes demonstrating non-necrotising granulomas characterised by epithelioid and giant cells surrounded by smaller mononuclear cells (i). The "flame" appearance of the upper lesion within the spinal cord and the “elongated drops” shape of its underlying lesions could, in some way, mimic that of a solid tumour and satellite metastases [9,10]. However, homogeneous contrast enhancement, absence of intralesional inhomogeneity, absence of xanthochromia and malignant cells, and abundance of lymphocytes in the CSF sediment made this diagnosis unlikely. On the other hand, the reduction in CD8 suppressor, increase in the CD4/CD8 ratio, presence of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and histiocytes in the CSF, preserved glucose, and normal lactate levels indicated an inflammatory, possibly autoimmune disease [6,8]. Rheumatoid arthritis, Sjögren’s disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, and Bechet's disease were ruled out based on anamnesis, physical examination, and the absence of specific autoantibodies in the serum. Standing on the multifocal contrast enhancement of lesions involving either the brain or the spinal cord, a provisional diagnosis of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) was made, and a high-steroid schedule was initiated and later tapered to oral prednisone after discharge. At the clinical follow-up three months later, the patient had slightly improved but was still paraparetic and ataxic. Spinal cord MRI demonstrated further worsening of the known lesions, with further craniocaudal extension from C2 to C6 and from C7 to D5 (Fig. 1d). The lesions were intensely contrast-saturated and involved both posterior and lateral cords. In the coronal sequences, the spinal cord lesions had a typical appearance, resembling the one known as the "trident" sign and suggestive of pial and subpial involvement (Fig. 1f). Finally, considering both the patient’s age and imaging findings, two possibilities still existed: NS and lymphoproliferative disease of the CNS [6]. Indeed, the "trident" sign has been detected in imaging of spinal cords from both these diseases [2,11] and the slight leptomeningeal involvement of the brain could fit well with each of them. ACE concentrations were normal (60.6 U/l; n.v.: 19.8-70.2). A flow cytometry was carried out on the cellular sediment of the CSF, which demonstrated a polyclonal population of lymphocytes (93% CD3+; 75% CD3+CD4+; 15% CD3+CD8+; CD3+ anti-TCR-α/β+; 92% CD5+; 2% CD19+; 2% CD20+; 4% CD16+CD56+). While substantially ruling out B-cell lymphoma, this mixed polyclonal population may be compatible with a granulomatous reaction segregated within the subarachnoid space [4,8]. Giemsa staining of cells collected from CSF sediment highlighted mononuclear cells with dispersed chromatin (MG and A De L, personal observations), a typical finding of activated immune cells. A total body contrast-enhanced CT scan was requested but was found to be irrelevant. We then performed total body 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emitting tomography (FDG-PET) which demonstrated the presence of overactive lymph nodes at the mediastinal and hilar levels of the right lower pulmonary bronchus and at the subcarinal level (Fig. 1g, 1h, 1i). A subsequent lymph node biopsy was found to be consistent with sarcoidosis [12]. A final diagnosis of probable NS was made according to current diagnostic criteria [12,13,14], and a therapeutic schedule including azathioprine and infliximab was initiated [15]. Six months later, follow-up clinical and imaging examinations were performed. Paraparesis significantly improved and the patient could walk without assistance. MRI showed regression of the intramedullary lesions, which had reduced in length and volume (Fig. 2a). The contrast enhancement of the cerebellar leptomeninges had also disappeared (Fig. 2b). MRI follow-up at six months showed regression of intramedullary lesions (a). Contrast enhancement of cerebellar leptomeninges had also disappeared (b).