A 27-year-old male presented to the emergency department with complaints of severe lower back pain, sudden onset weakness in both lower limbs, and progressive urinary incontinence. Neurological examination revealed bilateral lower limb weakness with diminished reflexes and altered perianal sensation. MRI of the dorso lumbar spine was performed urgently. Contrast-enhanced MRI of the dorso lumbar spine revealed a T1 hyperintense, T2 hypointense, nonenhancing lesion located ventrally in the subdural or subarachnoid space, extending from L1 to the upper margin of S1 (Figs. 1 and 4). Clumping of the cauda equina nerve roots was seen, leading to a preliminary diagnosis of an intradural extramedullary neoplasm or arachnoiditis. However, the absence of contrast enhancement and a normal white cell count made infectious and neoplastic etiologies less likely.Fig. 1Sagittal non contrast T2 weighted image shows hypointense subdural hematoma (Red arrow), long segment cord hyperintensity (Green arrow) and hyperintensity along the conus (White arrow).Fig 1: Sagittal non contrast T2 weighted image shows hypointense subdural hematoma (Red arrow), long segment cord hyperintensity (Green arrow) and hyperintensity along the conus (White arrow). Upon further detailed history-taking, the patient’s attendant revealed a recent lumbar puncture procedure performed a week prior at another facility. This key information prompted retrospective re-evaluation of the MRI, which then suggested a diagnosis of spinal subdural hematoma. The hematoma appeared to be causing significant compression of the cauda equina and conus medullaris, with T2/STIR hyperintensities in the spinal cord extending from D9 to the conus—features suggestive of compressive myelopathy (Figs. 2 and 3).Fig. 2T2 weighted axial image shows hypointense hematoma along the ventral aspect compressing the cord with intramedullary hyperintense signal-myelopathy.Fig 2:Fig. 3Sagittal STIR image showing hyperintense signals within the cord (white arrows).Fig 3:Fig. 4Sagittal T1 weighted image showing hyperintense hematoma in subdural space on the ventral aspect.Fig 4: T2 weighted axial image shows hypointense hematoma along the ventral aspect compressing the cord with intramedullary hyperintense signal-myelopathy. Sagittal STIR image showing hyperintense signals within the cord (white arrows). Sagittal T1 weighted image showing hyperintense hematoma in subdural space on the ventral aspect. Preoperative laboratory work-up revealed thrombocytopenia with a platelet count of approximately 30,000/mm³. Coagulation profile was otherwise normal. In view of the thrombocytopenia, surgical decompression was deferred, and platelet transfusion was initiated. Repeat MRI after 72 hours demonstrated decreased cord signal changes with stable hematoma size (Fig. 5).Fig. 5Sagittal T2 weighted follow-up MRI shows near resolution of cord hyperintensity with residual hyperintensity seen along the conus (Green arrow) with hematoma (red arrows).Fig 5: Sagittal T2 weighted follow-up MRI shows near resolution of cord hyperintensity with residual hyperintensity seen along the conus (Green arrow) with hematoma (red arrows). The patient showed progressive neurological improvement with conservative management. He was discharged on the 8th day with partial recovery of motor function and placed on regular follow-up and physiotherapy. At the 3-month follow-up, the patient had persistent lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of a neurogenic bladder.