A 49-year-old woman was referred to our team because of a painful abdominal surgical scar. The patient’s surgical history was notable for an anterior lumbar interbody fusion in April 2020, with a 360-degree fusion of L4-L5 and L5-S1. Four months later, she experienced symptoms of numbness and sharp radiating pain across the abdomen, localized near the umbilicus, down the entirety of the abdominal scar. In addition, the patient underwent removal of the infected hardware 11 months after the index procedure and 7 months before presentation. Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis, represented in Figure 1, showed normal postoperative changes of the lumbar spine with normal scarring of the abdominal wall and no etiology of abdominal wall pain. At the consultation, the surgical incision was slightly widened and hypertrophic, without evidence of a sinus tract (Fig. 2). Over the course of 4 months, the patient developed worsening pain symptoms, prompting surgical intervention. Computed tomography imaging findings of abdominal wall. The patient's scar during preoperative consultation. An elliptical skin incision was made over the midline. The scar area was excised, and a tense mass was palpated in the area that had been previously marked as maximally tender (Fig. 3). The cavity was carefully opened and noted as an organized cavity. The cavity was thoroughly inspected and was not found to track toward the abdominal muscles, nor was a sinus tract found. The mass was completely excised from the adipose tissue and overlying muscles (Fig. 4). Skin flaps were created for the eversion of skin edges and tension-free closure for an improved cosmetic result.3 Gross pathology revealed 2 irregular fragments of fatty soft tissue. The first measured 3.5 × 3.0 cm with a concave surface. The second tissue consisted of an 8.0 × 0.3 cm ellipse of skin with subcutaneous fat measuring up to 3.5 cm in depth. A band of fibrous tissue extending from the skin to the full depth of the specimen was observed (Fig. 3). Interestingly, the patient was found to have a benign osteoma due to heterotopic ossification (HO) from the previous lumbar fusion within the fibrous capsule. Intraoperative image showing the fibrous capsule in situ. Hypertrophic scar with HO and surrounding fibrous capsule. During both 2-week and 2-month follow-up appointments after surgery, the patient reported reduced pain and increased physical activity. Currently, the patient remains symptom-free after surgical scar revision.