The patient was a 52-year-old woman. Her chief complaint was low back pain, right leg pain, and numbness, which had persisted for more than half a year. Muscle strength and sensory function of both legs were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed lateral recess stenosis bilaterally, which was more severe on the right side, with severe facet osteoarthritis at the L4-5 level (Fig. 1a-c). Because medication was not effective, she underwent conventional partial laminectomy at L4-5 (Fig. 1d-f). The postoperative course was uneventful, and the right leg symptoms disappeared. She returned to work after 3 months. However, 4 months after the surgery, the right low back pain and leg pain recurred and gradually deteriorated. Plain radiographs showed low-grade slippage of the L4 vertebral body (Fig. 2a-c) without instability, and MRI showed bilateral paramedian formation of FJCs at the affected level, with the right FJC compressing the base of the right L5 nerve root (Fig. 2d and e). The cause of her symptoms was diagnosed as an FJC arising postoperatively. Although we tried facet joint block and percutaneous aspiration of the cyst several times, these treatments were not effective. Because full-endoscopic resection of the FJC via a TF approach under local anesthesia can avoid instrumented fusion of the affected levels and decrease stress on cardiopulmonary function and back muscles, she hoped to undergo full-endoscopic surgery for an early return to daily work. Preoperative T2-weighted MRI and T2-weighted MRI at 1 month postoperatively. (a, d) Median sagittal view. (b, e) Axial view of the L4-5 intervertebral level. (c, f) Axial view of the L5 cranial endplate level. Before the first operation, severe lateral recess stenosis is observed at the L4-5 level due to facet joint osteoarthritis. One month after the first operation, adequate posterior decompression of the spinal canal is achieved without progression of disc degeneration or spondylolisthesis. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Plain radiographs and T2-weighted MRI at 4 months after the first operation. Plain radiographs of lateral views in (a) neutral, (b) flexed, and (c) extended positions show grade 1 slippage of the L4 vertebral body without intervertebral instability. The right paramedian (d) sagittal view and (e) axial view of the L4-5 intervertebral level show bilateral facet joint cyst formation. The right lateral recess is particularly narrow due to the right facet joint cyst. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging She underwent full-endoscopic ventral facetectomy (FEVF) and lumbar FJC resection via a TF approach under local anesthesia with 20 mL of 1% lidocaine around the L4-5 foramen. Because we were concerned about the presence of epidural adhesions and scar tissue, facet joint arthrography was performed at the beginning of the surgery under fluoroscopic guidance using contrast medium mixed with indigo carmine (Fig. 3a) to clarify the orientation of the FJC by staining it blue. After facet joint arthrography, we performed FEVF of the right L4-5 facet joint via a TF approach and confirmed the orientation of the FJC, which was stained blue (Fig. 3b). When the outer cyst wall was ruptured, indigo carmine flowed out (Fig. 3c). The L5 traversing nerve root was decompressed after removal of the outer wall of the FJC. Part of the medial wall of the FJC was left in place due to severe adhesion to the L5 nerve root (Fig. 3d). Arthrography with indigo carmine injection, endoscopic views intraoperatively, and CT scans before and after the second operation. (a) Fluoroscopic view of arthrography with indigo carmine injection in the right L4-5 facet joint. (b) Endoscopic view after drilling the L5 superior articular process. Right side: cranial; left side: caudal. (c) Endoscopic view of rupture of the outer wall of the facet cyst with the bipolar tip. Indigo carmine leaks out from the cyst. (d) Endoscopic view after lateral recess decompression and resection of the cyst wall. Part of the medial wall adhered to the L5 nerve root is left intact. (i) Superior articular process. (ii) Stained outer cyst wall and scar tissue. (iii) Leakage of indigo carmine from the cyst. (iv) L5 traversing nerve root surrounded by the medial cyst wall and scar tissue. (e) Preoperative CT after discography and (f) postoperative CT show resection of the ventral facet joint (yellow dotted line) and preservation of most of the facet joint line. CT: computed tomography Seven days after the second operation, her low back pain and right leg pain had improved, and she was able to return to daily work. One year after the second operation, although plain radiographs showed slight progression of disc height narrowing at the L4-5 level without instability, MRI showed no recurrence of the right FJC (Fig. 4). Her Japanese Orthopedics Association score (highest possible points, 29 points) improved from 11 points to 18 points postoperatively, an improvement rate of 63.6%. The Numerical Rating Scale score for right leg pain also improved from 8 to 1 postoperatively. Plain radiographs at 1 year after the second operation and T2-weighted axial MRI at 4 months and 1 year after the second operation. Plain radiographs of lateral views in (a) neutral and (b) flexed positions show mild progression of degeneration in the L4-5 intervertebral disc without intervertebral instability. (c) Axial view of the L4-5 intervertebral level at 4 months after the second operation shows the disappearance of the right facet joint cyst after resection. (d) Axial view at 1 year after the second operation shows no recurrence of the right facet joint cyst and spontaneous disappearance of the left facet joint cyst. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging