A 60-year-old woman presented with severe chronic pain in the left lumbar, lower buttock, iliac, and groin areas. These pain areas were not connected but were separate. A schematic diagram of pain locations recorded in actual clinical practice is shown in Fig. 1. The numerical rating scale (NRS) scores for pain in the lumbar, lower buttock, iliac, and groin areas were 10, 6, 5, and 4, respectively. The pain worsened after about 5 mins of sitting and after about 2 hours of standing upright. She would have liked to work long hours, but the pain had forced her to cut back on her hours. In her 20s, she had her first acute lumbosacral sprain, with a second sprain in her 40s, and she then had lower back pain ever since. In her 60s, the lower back pain worsened without any apparent trigger, and numbness also developed in the posterior region of the right lower extremity (Fig. 1). She visited several hospitals and clinics, but standard imaging examinations such as X-ray, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging showed no obvious lesions that could be causing the pain (Fig. 2A and B). Pelvic computed tomography also showed no obvious abnormalities in the SIJs (Fig. 2C and D). Blood tests showed no signs of inflammation or other abnormalities. Pharmacological treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, pregabalin, tramadol, and antidepressants did not provide sufficient pain relief. A sacral block and an L3/4 epidural block each provided pain relief, so the patient was referred by the anesthesiologist to a neurosurgeon for SCS. Before surgical intervention, she was referred to a spinal surgery specialist for examination. On examination by the specialist, the location of pain was characteristic, and imaging and blood tests showed no abnormalities, so SIJ dysfunction was suggested as a possible diagnosis. Therefore, the anesthesiologist was asked to perform a fluoroscopically guided SIJ block, which provided a significant analgesic effect and led to the diagnosis of SIJ dysfunction. The schematic diagram recorded in actual clinical practice shows the pain locations. The numerical rating scale scores for pain in the lumbar, lower buttock, iliac, and groin are 10, 6, 5, and 4, respectively. A, B: Magnetic resonance T2-weighted images of the spinal cord show no obvious lesions causing the pain. C, D: 3D images of pelvic computed tomography show no obvious abnormalities in the sacroiliac joints (arrowheads: sacroiliac joints, C: anterior-posterior view, D: posterior-anterior view). 3D: three-dimensional Then, an SCS trial was performed using 2 percutaneous 8-contact leads (Model 977A190; Medtronic Inc.) placed at the Th 8-11 levels, confirming the paresthesia by intraoperative stimulation (Fig. 3A and B). During the SCS trial, 3 stimulation patterns were applied over a 9-day period: tonic, differential target multiplexed (DTM), and fast-acting subperception therapy (FAST).16) The results of the SCS trial showed that the visual analog scale (VAS) scores before and after each stimulation were as follows: tonic 81 to 26; DTM 85 to 26; and FAST 83 to 21. After the SCS trial was completed, the inserted electrodes were removed, and the patient was discharged. One month later, 2 new percutaneous 16-contact leads (Infinion CX lead; Boston Scientific) and an implantable pulse generator (WaveWriter Alpha 32; Boston Scientific) were implanted simultaneously under general anesthesia referring to the previous X-ray of trial lead placement (Fig. 3C and D). The threshold of paresthesia using FAST stimulation (frequency 90 Hz, pulse width 210 μs) of the painful area was approximately 3.5 mA. The power setting of FAST stimulation is approximately 30% of the paresthesia threshold, so the actual stimulation power was always on at 1.0 mA. One month after implantation, FAST stimulation dramatically reduced the VAS and the quick inventory of depression symptomatology (QIDS) scores from 83 to 8 and from 16 to 4, respectively (Fig. 4). In addition, the numbness in the posterior region of the right lower extremity that was present before implantation had disappeared by this time. The pain relief effects lasted for 12 months and enabled her to work long hours (Fig. 4). A, B: During the spinal cord stimulation trial, two percutaneous 8-contact leads are placed at the Th 8-11 levels (A: anterior-posterior view, B: lateral view). C, D: Two new percutaneous 16-contact leads and an implantable pulse generator are implanted simultaneously under general anesthesia (C: anterior-posterior view, D: lateral view). The line graph shows the changes in the visual analog scale (black line) and the quick inventory of depression symptomatology (gray dotted line) scores after implantation. m: month, QIDS: quick inventory of depression symptomatology, VAS: visual analog scale