A 59-year-old woman presented with bilateral lower limb pain for two years, which had progressively worsened over the preceding three months. The patient reported severe knee pain with significant limitation in ambulation, being unable to walk more than 10 meters. Notably, due to the predominance of knee pain, she did not report significant low back pain or intermittent claudication of the lower limbs. Initial evaluation was performed at an arthroplasty center. According to the previous medical records, clinical examination revealed severe bilateral knee joint line tenderness and restricted range of motion secondary to pain, while motor and sensory examinations were normal. Bilateral knee radiographs demonstrated features consistent with severe osteoarthritis (Figure 1). (A) X-ray standing AP view of the right knee showing severe osteoarthritis mainly in the medial joint compartment with varus deformity. (B) X-ray standing AP view of the left knee showing severe osteoarthritis mainly in the medial compartment with varus deformity. AP: anteroposterior The patient subsequently underwent bilateral TKR performed by an arthroplasty surgeon (Figure 2). (A) X-ray standing AP view of the right knee showing TKR prosthesis in good alignment. (B) X-ray standing AP view of the left knee showing TKR prosthesis in good alignment. AP: anteroposterior; TKR: total knee replacement Despite appropriate postoperative care, including structured physiotherapy and a standard TKR rehabilitation protocol for one month, the patient reported minimal improvement in her leg pain and difficulty ambulating. She was reassured initially but sought further evaluation due to persistent symptoms. Two months after undergoing TKR, the patient presented to our spine surgery service for further evaluation. On clinical examination, she reported neurogenic claudication with a walking distance of approximately 20 meters. The straight leg raise test was positive at 70° bilaterally. There were no clinical signs suggestive of knee infection, although mild tenderness over the lumbar spine was noted. Both knees appeared stiff, likely secondary to inadequate postoperative physiotherapy resulting from pain and muscle weakness during ambulation. Radiographs of both knees demonstrated well-aligned prosthetic components without evidence of loosening or other mechanical complications. Plain radiographs of the lumbosacral spine revealed instability with facet joint arthropathy at the L4-L5 level (Figures 3-4). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed LCS and bilateral foraminal stenosis at L4-L5, correlating with her clinical findings (Figure 5). AP: anteroposterior (A) X-ray lateral view of the lumbosacral spine in flexion showing the closing of the disc space anteriorly (black line) and the opening of the disc space posteriorly at the L4-L5 level. (B) X-ray lateral view of the lumbosacral spine in extension showing the opening of the disc space anteriorly (black line) and the closing of the disc space posteriorly at the L4-L5 level. AP: anteroposterior (A) T2-weighted MR image (sagittal section) showing lumbar canal stenosis at the L4-L5 level (yellow arrow). (B) T2-weighted MR image (axial section) showing bilateral exiting nerve root (L4) compression (yellow arrow). MR: magnetic resonance; LCS: lumbar canal stenosis The patient underwent lumbar canal decompression and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion, after which there was significant improvement in her bilateral leg pain and neurogenic symptoms (Figure 6). (A) X-ray AP view of the lumbosacral spine showing pedicle screw fixation at the L4-L5 level with interconnecting rod and cage in the disc space. (B) X-ray lateral view of the lumbosacral spine showing pedicle screw fixation at the L4-L5 level with interconnecting rod and cage in the disc space. AP: anteroposterior Knee stiffness, however, persisted due to delayed rehabilitation, though gradual improvement was observed with dedicated physiotherapy (Table 1). Before TKR, the patient had claudication pain after walking for 10 meters. After TKR and one month of proper physiotherapy, this improved to 20 meters, but after addressing the spine pathology, it improved to more than 500 meters. Lower limb pain was quantified using VAS. Before TKR, the patient had excruciating lower limb pain (VAS score: 8). After TKR, the pain reduced to intense type pain (VAS score: 6), but after addressing the spine pathology, there was significant pain reduction (VAS score: 2). TKR: total knee replacement; VAS: Visual Analog Scale