A 14-year-old male patient presented to the neurological department with acute severe lumbar pain radiating to the lower limbs, where mild weakness progressed over 1 week to significant motor impairment. The patient has no history of immunologic diseases, diabetes, or medication use. Clinical examination showed 3/5 motor weakness in the lower limbs, 4/5 dorsal plantar flexion of the foot, urinary retention, diffuse skin pustules on the back of the thigh, shoulder, and humerus, and a little on the back. These pustules were cultured, revealing S. epidermidis as the causative pathogen. Laboratory test results revealed a marked increase in white blood cell (WBC; 15 × 109/l), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR; 78.00 mm/h), and C-reactive protein (CRP; 123.96 mg/l) levels, suggesting a severe infection, with liver and kidney function tests normal and negative results for both the Vidal and Wright tests. Based upon the neurologic symptomatology and blood test findings, the differential diagnosis was a compressive lesion in the lower dorsal spinal cord such as a tumor, disc, hemorrhage, or abscess. Contrast-enhanced MRI with gadolinium demonstrated a peripheral fluid signal surrounding the thoracic spinal cord, consistent with an epidural abscess from T9-T12 to L1, causing spinal cord compression (Fig. 1). The recommendation for surgical excision was made, with the patient's consent obtained and medical consultations prior to the procedure indicating no objections.Fig 1Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium demonstrated a peripheral fluid signal surrounding the thoracic spinal cord, consistent with an epidural abscess from T9-T12 to L1, causing spinal cord compression. ([A] Sagittal section of T2-weighted sequence, [B] Sagittal section of STIR sequence, [C] Sagittal section of T1-weighted sequence).Fig 1: Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium demonstrated a peripheral fluid signal surrounding the thoracic spinal cord, consistent with an epidural abscess from T9-T12 to L1, causing spinal cord compression. ([A] Sagittal section of T2-weighted sequence, [B] Sagittal section of STIR sequence, [C] Sagittal section of T1-weighted sequence). Prophylactic antibiotics prior to surgery were made with intravenous vancomycin 1 g bi-daily and ceftriaxone 1 g bi-daily. The surgery was done by a specialist in neurosurgery, which involved T9-T11 laminectomy, canal dilatation, and SEA drainage via a posterior approach (Fig. 2). Purulent fluid samples were collected and sent for Gram staining and bacteriological culture analysis. Irrigation and evacuation were performed multiple times until no abscesses or purulent material remained. The incision was repeatedly and carefully irrigated with iodine and saline mixed with vancomycin before closure, with the negative pressure drainage vessel remaining in situ. After surgery, cultures of the patient's blood and drained pus revealed S. epidermidis, consistent with the pathogens detected in skin pustule tests and suggesting these lesions as the likely source of infection. Consequently, based on the final microbiological sensitivity report, the patient was prescribed oral cefixime 400 mg daily and oral amoxicillin 1 g bi-daily for 2 weeks.Fig. 2Dorsal posterior T9-T11 laminectomy and canal dilatation.Fig 2: Dorsal posterior T9-T11 laminectomy and canal dilatation. The patient had an uneventful recovery postsurgery and was discharged from the hospital within 3 days. The patient has undergone consistent follow-up evaluations. MRI imaging conducted in the third week to assess for disease recurrence and spinal deformity revealed complete lesion resolution and spinal decompression, indicating no disease recurrence [Figure 3]. At the last review, the patient was asymptomatic, exhibiting improved physical examination results with no motor weakness or lumbar pain.Fig. 3MRI imaging conducted in the third week to assess for disease recurrence and spinal deformity revealed complete lesion resolution and spinal decompression, indicating no disease recurrence. ([A] Sagittal section of T2-weighted sequence, [B] Sagittal section of T1-weighted sequence).Fig 3: MRI imaging conducted in the third week to assess for disease recurrence and spinal deformity revealed complete lesion resolution and spinal decompression, indicating no disease recurrence. ([A] Sagittal section of T2-weighted sequence, [B] Sagittal section of T1-weighted sequence).