A 71-year-old male underwent a left L45 FESS for foraminal stenosis and disc herniation. Postop day 40, he developed the sudden onset of severe low back pain/sciatica. Although he remained afebrile and laboratory tests showed only mild inflammation (C-reactive protein: 2.1 mg/dL, white blood cell count within the normal range), the lumbar magnetic resonance and computed tomography (CT) studies revealed L4/5 osteomyelitis. The CT-guided biopsy documented Cutibacterium acnes (formerly Propionibacterium acnes), and the patient responded well to antibiotic treatment alone, without requiring additional surgical intervention. Two years earlier, a now 71-year-old diabetic male had undergone a L4/5 laminectomy for stenosis. Now, the magnetic resonance showed new left L4/5 foraminal stenosis with a disc herniation; there was no central stenosis [Figures 1a-d]. Under fluoroscopy, the patient newly underwent a left transforaminal FESS performed through a skin incision of <1 cm made 8 cm lateral to the midline [Figure 2a]. An endoscope was inserted to perform a partial left L5 lateral superior articular process (SAP); the right L4 nerve root was decompressed, a finding confirmed on the postoperative CT study [Figures 2b-e]. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings prior to full-endoscopic spinal surgery. (a) Mid-sagittal and (b) left paramedian-sagittal T1-weighted images demonstrate decompressed cauda equina following laminectomy performed 2 years earlier, along with left L4/5 foraminal stenosis and disc herniation (arrow in b). Axial T2-weighted images at the levels of (c) L4 and (d) L5 are also shown. Intraoperative view and postoperative computed tomography confirmation of left L4/5 foraminotomy through full-endoscopic spinal surgery. (a) Fluoroscopic anteroposterior view during full-endoscopic spinal surgery. (b-e) Postoperative computed tomography images demonstrate preservation of the intervertebral cortical bone and successful left L4/5 foraminotomy achieved by drilling out the outer portion of the superior articular process. Arrows in (c) and (d) indicate the drilled area of the superior articular process. Images include (b) a mid-sagittal computed tomography view as well as axial views at the levels of (c) L4, (d) L4/5, and (e) L5. The patient returned 40 days postoperatively with severe low back pain. He was now afebrile, and laboratory tests showed a C-reactive protein level of 2.1 mg/dL (1+); the white blood cell count remained normal. However, the lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a widespread low-intensity area involving the L4 and L5 vertebral bodies [Figure 3a] consistent with osteomyelitis, that is, bone marrow edema on T2-weighted images [Figures 3b and c] and diffusion-weighted images [Figures 3d and e] and high-intensity lesions on the cortical bone surface at the lower L4 and right side of L5 bodies (arrow). The lumbar CT showed narrowing of the L4/5 intervertebral space [Figure 4a] and osteolytic changes at the cortical surfaces of the L4 and L5 vertebral bodies and L5 SAP (arrows) [Figures 4b-d]. The CT-guided biopsy of the osteolytic lesion on the right side of the L4 vertebral body [Figure 4e] confirmed the diagnosis of C. acnes, and he was successfully managed with 6 weeks of intravenous cefazolin. Following discharge immediately after completion of intravenous antibiotic therapy, he continues to be monitored every 1 month on an outpatient basis. Magnetic resonance imaging findings on admission. (a) Mid-sagittal T1-weighted image shows low-intensity signals in the L4 and L5 vertebral bodies. Axial T2-weighted images at the levels of (b) L4 and (c) L5, and diffusion-weighted images at the levels of (d) L4 and (e) L5, reveal scattered high-intensity lesions (arrows), corresponding to suspected multiple sites of infection or abscess formation. Computed tomography findings on admission. (a) Sagittal image shows narrowing of the L4/5 intervertebral space. Axial images demonstrate multiple bone erosions at the levels of (b) L4, (c) L4/5, and (d) L5, indicative of infection-related osteolytic changes (arrows). (e) Intraoperative computed tomography scan obtained during computed tomography-guided biopsy targeting an osteolytic lesion in the right portion of the L4 vertebral body.