A 63-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, gout, and class II obesity presented to his local emergency department with a several-hour history of severe lower back pain and spasms after bending over. At that time, magnetic resonance imaging revealed a left-sided L4-L5 paracentral disk bulge with mild-to-moderate left-sided lateral recess compression. Surgery was not pursued, and he was conservatively managed with anti-inflammatory medication and physical therapy. Over the course of two years, his symptoms progressively worsened, and he began to suffer from burning paresthesia of the bilateral lower extremities. The patient received radiofrequency ablation of the left L5 medial branch but realized temporary symptom relief. Eventually, the patient underwent an SCS trial for treatment of his chronic pain, opting for permanent implantation. The SCS leads were placed in the epidural space posterior to the T7 vertebral level, and the IPG was anchored in the subcutaneous tissue of the right flank. Initially, the patient reported favorable modulation of his bilateral burning lower extremity pain. However, eight months after implantation, the patient’s symptoms recurred. Surgical consultation identified 1+/4 patellar and ankle-deep tendon reflexes on the right with a positive straight leg raise test on the right. Computed tomography (CT) myelogram showed moderate-to-severe right-sided neural foraminal stenosis and mild left-sided neural foraminal stenosis at the L5 and S1 spinal levels. The patient elected to undergo L5 decompressive hemilaminectomy with medial facetectomy. At that time, the SCS was remotely deactivated and left in situ after the surgery. At follow-up several weeks later, the patient reported resolution of his back and lower extremity pain and had returned to regular work duties. Removal of the SCS was not recommended, and, given a resolution of his symptoms at that time, the SCS remained deactivated. Twelve years after SCS deactivation, the patient presented to his primary care physician with a new complaint of sharp right-sided flank pain constant for two weeks. He denied low back or leg pain. Initial workup, including ultrasound and CT chest and CT abdomen, was unrevealing. The primary care physician referred the patient to osteopathic neuromusculoskeletal medicine (ONMM) for further evaluation and management. Physical exam by the consulting ONMM physician revealed exacerbation of the patient’s pain with gentle inferior translation of the right flank tissue and attenuation of pain with gentle superior translation. There were no discrete areas of tenderness elicited in the surrounding body wall and spine. Comparison of the most recent CT chest scout film obtained before the initial ONMM encounter with a CT chest scout film obtained after this last surgery, 12 years prior, demonstrated rotational migration of the IPG, elongation of the extension cable, and stable positioning of the epidural lead (Figures 1A-1C). (A) Postoperative computed tomography (CT) chest scout film obtained 12 years prior to the presenting complaint of acute right-sided flank pain. (B) Current day CT chest scout film obtained 12 years after deactivation of the spinal cord stimulator (A) demonstrates rotational migration of the IPG within the patient’s right flank and elongation of the extension cable. In contrast, the epidural lead did not demonstrate migration over this 12-year period, remaining posterior to the T7 vertebral level (arrows). (C) Stylized diagram depicts rotational migration of the IPG and elongation of the extension cable (3x magnification relative to A, B). The magnitude of migration is visualized by superimposing the tracings of the IPG, extension cable, and epidural lead 12 years prior (gray lines) to the patient’s current-day (red lines) presentation in the ONMM clinic. Scale bars: 160 mm. Subsequently, ONMM referred the patient to neurosurgery for consideration of SCS removal. The patient elected for removal. At the time of SCS removal by neurosurgery, all components of the device appeared to be intact without gross malfunction. Postoperatively, the patient recovered well without recurrence of his remote low back pain or lower extremity pain. Upon return to the ONMM clinic, the patient noted complete resolution of his right-sided flank pain and was recommended to return to the clinic as needed.