We aim to describe a report of two cases of patients without a history of bleeding disorders or head trauma, but with a history of severe chronic lumbar spinal stenosis who developed intracranial hypotension with SDH following spine surgery without evidence of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak/dural trauma both intraoperatively and on immediate postoperative laboratory studies and drain outputs. Both patients developed significant neurologic symptoms (generalized tonic-clonic seizures, coma) in the immediate postoperative setting with head computed tomography (CT) showing findings mimicking hypoxic brain injury. Both patients were treated with prompt medical management. One patient required surgical intervention in the form of craniotomy to evacuate a large SDH. In both cases the high-volume shift in CSF appeared to have been into an intact, but expanded dural tube as a result of generous lumbar decompression. While observed/confirmed high-volume CSF leak can complicate spine surgery and lead to intracranial hypotension, the possibility that clinically significant CSF diversion from the ventricles could occur in the setting of an intact dural tube has not been reported following multi-segment lumbar decompression surgery. This was an 80-year-old woman with a past medical history of fibromyalgia, hepatic cirrhosis, de Quervain tenosynovitis, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome who initially presented for low back and bilateral lower extremity pain, specifically left thigh (anterior and posterior) and right gluteal pain. Preoperative imaging was notable for progressive degenerative scoliosis with widespread spondylitic changes producing areas of focal stenosis, L2–S1. She underwent left L2 and L3 transforaminal epidural steroid injection and right L5 transforaminal steroid injection with 100% diagnostic relief of lower extremity pain and was determined to be an appropriate candidate for staged L3–S1 anterior lumbar interbody fusion and T10-pelvis posterior spinal decompression fusion (Figure 1). Preoperative XR, and MRI for case 1. (A) AP and lateral XR. (B) Axial T2-weighted MRI slices of areas of stenosis. AP, anterior-posterior; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; XR, X-ray. The patient underwent the anterior stage of her procedure without complication. The posterior annulus nor the posterior longitudinal ligament (PLL) were removed. The patient was extubated without complication and transferred to the postoperative care unit, where she was reporting some continuation of her right posterior leg pain, as well as some left anterior thigh numbness. The following day, she underwent her planned second stage T10-pelvis posterior spinal decompression fusion with O-arm navigated instrumentation. Standard open posterior approach was utilized. All screws were stimulated to indicate appropriate positioning and there was no evidence by any means for pedicle wall violation. Following this, open decompression was performed, including: partial decompressive laminectomy at L2, L3, L4, and L5 with total decompressive facetectomy at left L2/3, left L3/4, right L4/5. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), local autograft, as well as crushed cancellous allograft and submicron topography biphasic calcium phosphate granules were utilized to promote fusion. Rods were placed and final tightening was performed with appropriate positioning of implants. Final Valsalva to 40 mmHg was negative for any evidence of CSF leak and there were no complications noted intraoperatively (Figure 2). Two deep subfascial drains were placed in the area of the decompression and held to suction, with appropriate serosanguinous drainage. Intraoperative photograph of decompression. The patient was extubated and upon initial trial of emergence from anesthesia, she was noted to have rhythmic shaking movements of her head and upper extremities concerning for seizure. Neurology was consulted. The patient experienced 3 episodes of generalized tonic-clonic seizures when sedation was paused, which all abated with resumption of propofol sedation. She was started on levetiracetam. A non-contrast head computed tomography (CT) obtained at the time demonstrated posterior fossa crowding with effacement of the ambient cisterns, and a diffuse appearance of brain edema with slit like ventricles. There was also a small tentorial SDH and small amount of intraventricular hemorrhage. There was no evidence of bony fractures or complications from head tong sites (Figure 2). There had been no episodes of hypoxia during or after the procedure. The patient was laid flat overnight for concern of CSF hypotension based off the brain imaging findings alone, and the following day brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was obtained which showed no evidence of hypoxic brain injury. There was patchy meningeal enhancement and some interval improvement in ventricular caliber. Continuous electroencephalogram (EEG) was without epileptiform activity or seizure. The patient had one additional episode of clinical seizure activity on postoperative day 2, which prompted an increase in levetiracetam. Patient was maintained on propofol sedation until postoperative day 2 and ketamine until day 3, which were both weaned without complication. The patient was noted to have an improving mental status exam but some residual word finding and short-term memory deficits compared to baseline, and was generally weak, but had no focal motor or sensory weakness. MRI of the total spine with CSF leak protocol demonstrated a nonspecific fluid collection thought to potentially be a seroma at L3–4 without clear evidence of potential CSF leak and without any other fluid collection concerning for a definitive CSF leak at the decompressed levels (L2–5). There was diffuse spinal dural thickening suggesting the presence of CSF hypotension. Beta-2 transferrin levels (a highly sensitive and specific measure of CSF) from drain fluid were negative postoperative days 1–4, with total daily drain output 652, 147.5, 216, and 98 mL but when there was a sudden increase in serous quality drainage in the subfascial drain on postoperative day 5 with the patient reporting a minor eye pain with output of 158 mL. Another beta-2 transferrin lab was sent and this time it was positive, as a result the drain was pulled and the drain site was oversewn. The patient passed head of bed trials and never experienced proto-typical symptoms of CSF leak. Repeat head CT postoperative day 4 demonstrated marked improvement in ventricular caliber and cisternal effacement, slightly decreased intraventricular blood products but no other significant changes with regards to subdural and parafalcine hemorrhages (Figure 3). Postoperative head CT POD 0, 1, and 11 showing progressive improvement in gray-white differentiation, ventricular caliber and brainstem compression. (A) Axial slices of areas of interest on POD 0. (B) Axial slices of areas of interest on POD 1. (C) Axial slices of areas of interest on POD 11. CT, computed tomography; POD, postoperative day. The remainder of the patient’s hospital course was uncomplicated and prior to discharge standing films were obtained and were unremarkable (Figure 4). Patient was discharged to the inpatient rehabilitation unit and she demonstrated improved mental status and full motor and sensory function in bilateral upper and lower extremities with only some mild residual left thigh altered sensation similar to her preoperative baseline. She was admitted to the inpatient rehabilitation unit for 1 week prior to eventual discharge home. Postoperative spine imaging for case 1. (A) Lateral upright postoperative radiographs of instrumentation. (B) AP upright postoperative radiographs of instrumentation. AP, anterior-posterior. At her most recent postoperative follow-up (6-month), the patient had made an excellent neurologic recovery, with normal cognition and full strength and sensation in her bilateral upper and lower extremities. Her incisions were well healed. She was reporting significant improvement in her preoperative symptoms with some occasional right anterior thigh and buttock area pain, consistent with early hip degenerative disease. Anatomically, she had no evidence of junctional kyphosis and her fusion appeared solid on CT scan. Thus, she ultimately achieved the same 6-month outcome that we would have aspired for despite the episode of intracranial hypotension and seizure. She had no subsequent seizures or any other identifiable sequelae of the intracranial hypotension event. A 71-year-old man with a past medical history of hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (prior septal myomectomy 2018), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hypertension, gastroesophageal reflex disease with Barrett’s esophagus, hyperlipidemia presented for low back pain with neurogenic claudication and radicular symptoms. Preoperative imaging demonstrated grade 1 spondylolisthesis at L4/5 and right greater than left L4/5 lateral recess stenosis and L4 foraminal stenosis. He was considered an appropriate candidate for L4/5 Total Posterior Spinal System (TOPS) (Figure 5). Preoperative spine imaging for case 2. (A) Preoperative AP and lateral upright radiographs of the lumbar spine. (B) Preoperative sagittal T2-weighted MRI images of areas of maximal stenosis. AP, anterior-posterior; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. The patient underwent uncomplicated scheduled L4/5 TOPS procedure. Following exposure, instrumentation was performed with placement of 7.5- and 6.5-mm pedicle screws at L4 and L5 with use of navigation. Total facetectomy was performed bilaterally at L4/5 as well as posterior column osteotomy at L4 and L5, as well as partial laminectomy L3 and L5 up to insertion of the ligamentum flavum and completed central decompressive laminectomy at L4. The TOPS device is rather large, and therefore a complete L4 and typically partial L3 laminectomy is needed, resulting in a generous multi-level decompression in the area of maximal stenosis. Following decompression, Valsalva to 40 mmHg was performed without evidence of CSF leak. Finally, a 21-mm large footprint TOPS device was placed with confirmation of appropriate positioning on intraoperative fluoroscopy. A subfascial drain was placed to bulb suction. While the patient was being weaned from anesthesia, he was noted to be demonstrating seizure-like convulsions. Propofol was re-initiated with resolution of clinical seizure activity. The patient was taken to emergent noncontrast head CT which demonstrated a right SDH with 7–8-mm midline shift (Figure 6). Neurosurgery was consulted for further management and the patient was loaded with levetiracetam, and was brought to the operating room (OR) with neurosurgery for emergent craniotomy and hematoma evacuation. Postoperative head CT of case 2. (A) Axial slices of postoperative head CT of case 2. (B) Coronal slices of postoperative head CT of case. CT, computed tomography. A large right hemicraniotomy was performed and the dura was opened sharply, revealing a large acute SDH. Surgicel was applied to bridging veins emptying into sagittal sinus which were medial edge of the hematoma but which did not appear to be actively bleeding. No obvious active source of hematoma was identified, and brain appeared relaxed and pulsatile following hematoma evacuation. Patient’s surgical incision was closed in the standard fashion. The patient was subsequently transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU). Postoperative drain output days 1–3 were 807, 250, and 0 mL. MRI postoperative day 3 demonstrated an area of possible dural deficiency without pseudomeningocele or large fluid collection over the laminectomy bed (Figure 7). He was placed on flat bedrest, and his drain was placed to gravity and clamped. He was extubated on postoperative day 4 and his subfascial drain was unclamped, was pulled and oversewn. Postoperative spine imaging for case 2. (A) Postoperative sagittal T2-weighted MRI. (B) Postoperative axial T2-weighted MRI. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. On postoperative day 6 the patient developed worsening headache prompting repeat head CT which demonstrated reaccumulation of prior SDH. He was deemed a suitable candidate and postoperative day 7 the patient underwent middle meningeal artery (MMA) embolization. CT myelogram was performed which surprisingly demonstrated a small dural leak at L4/5 and on postoperative day 8 the patient underwent epidural blood patch. Following this he passed height of bed trials. He continued to experience intermittent headaches but repeat head imaging demonstrated no new findings or interval worsening and his symptoms improved with supportive therapy. On postoperative day 16 he was admitted to inpatient rehabilitation. At that time, he remained on levetiracetam for seizure prophylaxis per neurology, and he demonstrated return to baseline in his neurologic exam. He continued to demonstrate improvement in his functional status and was discharged from acute rehabilitation without complication. At most recent follow-up 10 weeks postoperatively, he noted improvement in his strength and balance while continuing to work with physical therapy and noting more infrequent and less severe intermittent headaches. He does continue to experience intermittent diplopia although this was maintained with corrective lenses. He continued on levetiracetam per Neurology for seizure prophylaxis without further noted seizure activity. The decision on whether to continue antiseizure medications is individualized, but in many similar situations with provoked seizure activity, the antiseizure medication could be discontinued after about 3 months if brain imaging shows resolution of acute abnormalities, routine EEG shows no epileptiform activity, and there have been no interval seizures. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s), and with the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patients for publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.