A 65-year-old male presented with right-sided anterior thigh pain with associated axial low back pain. He described the pain as shooting, with a severity rating as high as 9/10. The pain radiated into the anteromedial aspect of his right thigh. The pain occurred constantly and impaired his ability to walk and perform activities of daily living (ADLs) for the previous five months. Physical exam demonstrated 5/5 motor strength in his bilateral lower extremities. Sensation to pinprick and light touch were intact. Coordination and reflexes were preserved. Femoral abduction and external rotation (FABER), Straight Leg Raise, and Slump tests were negative bilaterally. Heel-to-toe walk tests were performed without difficulty. There was no tenderness to palpation throughout the lower back and right thigh. and soft tissue abnormalities were observed. Past medical history was remarkable for hypertension and hyperlipidemia, with no history of diabetes mellitus. Social history was notable for light tobacco use (less than 10 cigarettes per day) and occasional alcohol intake. Family history was notable for his father, who developed prostate cancer. He had previously tried conservative treatments, including physical therapy, oral corticosteroids, and NSAIDs, without meaningful relief. An MRI of his lumbar spine was ordered and revealed L4-L5 moderate-severe neural foraminal stenosis. Electrodiagnostic testing findings were suggestive of L4 and L5 radiculopathy, with no evidence of peripheral polyneuropathy. Given these findings, a right L4-L5 transforaminal epidural steroid injection was performed. Immediately following the injection, the patient reported 0 % relief of his symptoms. Two months later, an additional attempt of a right, transforaminal, epidural corticosteroid injection was performed at L3, with no relief of symptoms. Pregabalin was trialed and titrated to increasing dosages with no reported changes. The patient concurrently obtained evaluations with multiple neurologists and spinal surgeons at academic institutions without a clear diagnosis or treatment plan. During a follow-up visit five months after the initial presentation, the patient reported worsening dysesthesias in the right thigh. On exam, severe point tenderness was noted over the right anterior thigh. A new weakness (4/5 motor strength) was noted in knee extension on the right. Sensation to pinprick and light touch was decreased along the dermatomes of L4, L5, and S1. These findings led to increased suspicion of an intrinsic pathology within the right thigh as a pain generator. An MRI of the right femur was ordered and revealed a 2 cm soft tissue mass within the vastus intermedius muscle (see Fig. 1), and he was subsequently referred to an orthopedic oncologist for further management. Surgery revealed a 2 cm mass deep to the interval between the vastus medialis and rectus femoris. The mass was enveloped by the overlying fascia and an adjacent nerve was observed to be exiting the mass. The sheath of the nerve was opened longitudinally, and the mass was carefully enucleated from the sheath while leaving nerve fascicles intact. A specimen was obtained and a biopsy was performed which confirmed the mass was a schwannoma. Following the procedure, the patient reported complete relief of his symptoms.Fig. 1MRI of the lower extremity showing a 1.2 cm schwannoma in the vastus intermedius.Fig. 1 MRI of the lower extremity showing a 1.2 cm schwannoma in the vastus intermedius.