Two cases from our tertiary spine center who sustained conus medullaris and cauda equina syndrome following ESI in a secondary care setting not affiliated with our institution. Both patients received ESI for the treatment of chronic lower back pain without sciatica and any reported neurological impairment prior to the injection. In both Case 1 (F, 72yrs) and Case 2 (F, 72yrs), ESI was administered without imaging-guidance and without pre-interventional lumbar MRI. We assessed both patients by thorough neurological examination, comprehensive neuroimaging, neurophysiology, and neuro-urological assessments. Case 1 had cauda equina syndrome, arachnoiditis was diagnosed from lumbar MRI. Case 2 had conus medullaris syndrome probably related to a reported accidental dura puncture. Symptoms of lumbosacral sensory impairment partly recovered, motor symptoms recovered, but neurogenic lower urinary tract and bowel dysfunction persisted. One patient still requires intermittent self-catheterization, while the other patient suffers from bowel dysfunction at 2-yr follow up. Prior to the injection the patient (F, 72yrs) had lower back pain, but did not report any neurological impairment (key findings from both cases are summarized in Table 1). From the secondary care medical report, the patient had an uncomplicated ESI at level S2 (side and transforaminal or interlaminar approach not reported) with an unspecified combination of local anesthetic and steroid. There was no written documentation or recordings from imaging provided, i.e., no evidence of ultrasound guidance. Immediately after the injection, the patient had difficulties in walking and incomplete sensorimotor paraplegia. Motor symptoms completely recovered, sensory impairments partly recovered within 24 h. At the emergency presentation at our tertiary care hospital, there was residual numbness in the right S3 dermatome, and bilateral numbness and reduced pin prick sensation in S4/5 dermatomes, voluntary sphincter contraction was weak but preserved. There was loss of sensation for bladder filling and trouble of voiding, as well as bowel dysfunction. The clinical findings were compatible with an incomplete cauda equina lesion. Uroflow showed reduced urine flow during voluntary micturition and ultrasound of the bladder revealed 180 mL of residual urine after spontaneous voiding of 100 mL. Table 1Key findings in case 1 and 2. EMG: electromyography; ESI: epidural steroid injection; NCS: nerve conduction studies; SSEP: somatosensory evoked potentialsCase 1Case 2DemographicsF, 72 yrsF, 72 yrsInterventionESI at level S2 (drugs not specified)ESI at level L5/S1 with bupivacaine 0.5% and betamethasoneAcute symptomsIncomplete sensorimotor paraplegia, loss of sensation for bladder fillingThoracic sensory level and loss of sensation for bladder filling, bowel dysfunctionClinical findings and syndromeSensory deficits S3-S5, cauda equina syndromeSensory level T10, conus medullaris syndromeMR- imagingInitial anterior displacement of the cauda equina nerve roots, at follow-up consistent with arachnoiditisNo abnormalitiesNeurophysiologyAbnormal pudendal SSEP and tibial nerve NCS at initial visitNormal pudendal SEP and tibial nerve NCS, denervation of anal sphincter in needle EMGNeuro-Urology and bowel functionAcontractile detrusor, post-void residual urine volume 210 mLStress urinary incontinence with preserved spontaneous voiding and no post-void residual, acontractile detrusor, interchanging diarrhea- obstipation episodes, stool incontinenceMedical managementIntermittent self-catheterizationDietary bowel management Key findings in case 1 and 2. EMG: electromyography; ESI: epidural steroid injection; NCS: nerve conduction studies; SSEP: somatosensory evoked potentials An emergency lumbar spine MRI was performed the day after infiltration, revealing anterior displacement of the cauda equina nerve roots from the L3 to S1 level (Fig. 1A-B). This may be due to adhesions of the nerve roots to the dural sac, potentially indicating early signs of arachnoiditis. Arachnoiditis refers to a chronic inflammatory condition of the arachnoid mater. Histologically, fibrosis and adhesion formation, thickening of the arachnoid, inflammatory cell infiltration, and vascular proliferations and obliterations often occur. In MRI of the lumbar spine, arachnoiditis is characterized by abnormal clumping or adhesion of the cauda equina nerve roots. The nerve roots may appear as a central conglomeration or may adhere peripherally to the margins of the thecal sac, resulting in an empty or irregularly filled central cerebrospinal fluid space. These findings are best appreciated on axial and sagittal T2-weighted sequences [14, 15]. In this case, a pre-existing condition cannot be excluded, as no prior lumbar MRI was available for comparison. However, given absence of neurological deficits prior to ESI, this is unlikely. No mass or fluid collection was observed between the cauda equina nerve roots and the dural sac, and the cerebrospinal fluid displayed normal signals on T1- and T2-weighted sequences throughout the entire lumbar spine. The MRI long-term follow up at two years revealed a newly definable clumping of the descending caudal fibers to a central intradural cord-like structure from level of the conus to L4, as well as marginal adherence of the caudal fibers to the dural sac from L4 to S1 with an “empty thecal sac sign”. The finding is consistent with a status after arachnoiditis (Fig. 1C-D). Fig. 1MRI of the lumbar spine of Case 1 one day (A, B) and two years (C, D) after the epidural steroid injection with sagittal (A, C) and transverse (C, D) T2-weighted sections. The MRI one day after the injection shows an anterior displacement of the cauda nerve roots from the L3 to S1 level (arrows in A and B), suggesting adhesions of the nerve roots to the dural sac and possibly an early sign of arachnoiditis. The follow-up MRI two years after the injection shows a clumping of the cauda nerve roots to a central cord-like structure (arrows in C and D) and peripheral adherence of the nerve roots to the dural sac distally (not shown), representing a typical finding after arachnoiditis. Note: the dashed line in A describes the orientation of the transverse section B at level L5/S1, the dashed line in C describes the orientation of the transverse section D at the level L4/5 MRI of the lumbar spine of Case 1 one day (A, B) and two years (C, D) after the epidural steroid injection with sagittal (A, C) and transverse (C, D) T2-weighted sections. The MRI one day after the injection shows an anterior displacement of the cauda nerve roots from the L3 to S1 level (arrows in A and B), suggesting adhesions of the nerve roots to the dural sac and possibly an early sign of arachnoiditis. The follow-up MRI two years after the injection shows a clumping of the cauda nerve roots to a central cord-like structure (arrows in C and D) and peripheral adherence of the nerve roots to the dural sac distally (not shown), representing a typical finding after arachnoiditis. Note: the dashed line in A describes the orientation of the transverse section B at level L5/S1, the dashed line in C describes the orientation of the transverse section D at the level L4/5 Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) of the tibial nerve were normal, whereas pudendal SSEP were of low amplitudes and abnormally configured (Fig. 2A). At the short-term follow-up examination, the pudendal SSEP normalized (in µV: 0.4 at baseline to 0.9 at d7). Additionally, tibial nerve electroneurography (ENG) including F-waves, and motor-evoked potentials (MEP) were performed. Tibial nerve ENG was abnormal with reduced compound muscle action potential amplitude bilaterally (in mV: left/right 1.4/0.7) but normal nerve conduction velocity and F-waves latencies (not shown). Central motor conduction times to the lower extremities were normal. These results suggest lower motoneuron (peripheral) rather than spinal (central) damage. Fig. 2Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) of tibial and pudendal nerve at day 1 (D1) and follow-up (D7) from Case 1. Y-axis: 2 µV/division (for pudendal nerve 0.5µV/division), X-axis: 20 ms/division Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) of tibial and pudendal nerve at day 1 (D1) and follow-up (D7) from Case 1. Y-axis: 2 µV/division (for pudendal nerve 0.5µV/division), X-axis: 20 ms/division The neuro-urological management included the placement of an indwelling transurethral catheter, followed by a diagnostic work-up with urethro-cystoscopy and video-urodynamic examination. The urethro-cystoscopy was unremarkable except for mild trabeculation. The video-urodynamic investigation revealed an acontractile detrusor (Fig. 3A). This finding again supported the assumption of lower motor neuron damage. The free uroflowmetry showed a prolonged curve with a post-void residual of 210 mL (Fig. 3B). Therefore, the patient was instructed in intermittent self-catheterization. In the video-urodynamic follow-up investigation after 2.5 years, an acontractile detrusor was still present (not shown). With persistently elevated post-void residual of up to 160 mL, intermittent self-catheterization remained necessary 2.5 years after ESI. Fig. 3Video-urodynamic findings of Case 1. No detrusor overactivity in filling cystometry and no detrusor contractility after permission to void. The maximum bladder capacity was 490 mL. Fluoroscopy showed a closed bladder neck during the voiding phase, and electromyographically, a non-relaxing pelvic floor was observed (A). Free Uroflowmetry of P1 with a prolongated curve and post-void residual of 210 mL. Voided volume: 264 mL, peak urinary flow rate (Qmax): 13.0 mL/s. The blue dotted line shows, for reference, a normal uroflowmetry as would be expected in a healthy individual (B) Video-urodynamic findings of Case 1. No detrusor overactivity in filling cystometry and no detrusor contractility after permission to void. The maximum bladder capacity was 490 mL. Fluoroscopy showed a closed bladder neck during the voiding phase, and electromyographically, a non-relaxing pelvic floor was observed (A). Free Uroflowmetry of P1 with a prolongated curve and post-void residual of 210 mL. Voided volume: 264 mL, peak urinary flow rate (Qmax): 13.0 mL/s. The blue dotted line shows, for reference, a normal uroflowmetry as would be expected in a healthy individual (B) The patient shared following perspective: “I will never forget the three hours of horror that followed an intervention intended to reduce my back pain. Immediately after the procedure, I tried to get up – only to discover, in complete shock, that I had absolutely no sensation in my body from the waist down. My greatest fear at that moment was that I might never walk again. I left the hospital with a permanent need for catheterization, manual stool evacuation, and no sexual function. This condition has made social interactions incredibly difficult. I am unable to control the involuntary passage of air, which occurs with noise and without warning. I also experience complete numbness in both the vagina and clitoris – no sexual sensation at all. It is a devastating and deeply isolating experience. How many more patients have to endure years of suffering before procedures like this are properly regulated, and these preventable outcomes are no longer allowed to occur?” “I will never forget the three hours of horror that followed an intervention intended to reduce my back pain. Immediately after the procedure, I tried to get up – only to discover, in complete shock, that I had absolutely no sensation in my body from the waist down. My greatest fear at that moment was that I might never walk again. I left the hospital with a permanent need for catheterization, manual stool evacuation, and no sexual function. This condition has made social interactions incredibly difficult. I am unable to control the involuntary passage of air, which occurs with noise and without warning. I also experience complete numbness in both the vagina and clitoris – no sexual sensation at all. It is a devastating and deeply isolating experience. How many more patients have to endure years of suffering before procedures like this are properly regulated, and these preventable outcomes are no longer allowed to occur?” This patient (F, 72 yrs) suffered from back pain without neurological impairment prior to ESI. From the secondary care medical report, it was retrieved this patient had ESI at level L5/S1 with bupivacaine 0.5% and betamethasone without imaging-guidance (side and transforaminal or interlaminar approach not reported; concentration and volume of drugs not further specified). There was an accidental dura puncture recognized through CSF outflow as reported by the examiner. The needle was slightly retracted and the injection administered. The patient was presented to our center two days following the injection with a sensory neurological level of T10, with more severe deficits in the S3-5 dermatomes bilaterally, without motor deficits and weak, but intact voluntary sphincter contraction. These findings were suggestive of a conus medullaris lesion. This patient also reported loss of sensation for bladder filling and trouble of voiding, as well as bowel dysfunction. Bowel dysfunction consists of changing episodes of diarrhea and obstipation, as well as stool incontinence. Emergency lumbar spine MRI was performed at day 2 following infiltration to rule out conus ischemia and epidural hematoma (Fig. 4A-B). Tibial and pudendal SSEP were normal (Fig. 5). To further quantify the neurological disturbance in this case, anal sphincter needle-electromyography was performed and signs of denervation at d13 post-infiltration were recorded. In the absence of paraparesis and normal neurographies (see below) this would point to a focal spinal damage of Onuf’s nucleus rather than a cauda lesion. In the short-term follow-up examination (3 months post-infiltration) SSEP remained unchanged. Additionally, tibial nerve ENG including F-waves, and MEP were performed. Tibial nerve ENG had normal amplitudes and normal nerve conduction velocity (in m/s: left/right 50/51) and F-waves latencies. A vascular lesion was considered and a 3-month follow-up MRI including diffusion weighted sequences was scheduled. This MRI did not show any changes compared to the acute MRI, in particular no vascular lesion of the conus medullaris (Fig. 4C-D). However, small vessel ischemia as well as inflammation could go undetected on MRI. Lumbar puncture was not done, as the chance of identifying a causative agent was considered low. Fig. 4MRI of the lumbar spine of Case 2 one day (A, B) and two months (C, D) after the epidural steroid injection with sagittal (A, C) and transverse (C, D) T2-weighted sections. Both MRI show moderate degenerations of the lumbar spine but a normal appearance of the conus medullaris and cauda nerve roots and no signs of arachnoiditis (arrows in A – D). Note: the dashed line in A describes the orientation of the transverse section B at level L4/5, the dashed line in C describes the orientation of the transverse section D at the level L4/5 MRI of the lumbar spine of Case 2 one day (A, B) and two months (C, D) after the epidural steroid injection with sagittal (A, C) and transverse (C, D) T2-weighted sections. Both MRI show moderate degenerations of the lumbar spine but a normal appearance of the conus medullaris and cauda nerve roots and no signs of arachnoiditis (arrows in A – D). Note: the dashed line in A describes the orientation of the transverse section B at level L4/5, the dashed line in C describes the orientation of the transverse section D at the level L4/5 Fig. 5Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) of tibial and pudendal nerve at day 20 (D20) and follow-up (D60) of Case 2. Y-axis: 2 µV/division (for pudendal nerve 0.5µV/division), X-axis: 20 ms/division Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) of tibial and pudendal nerve at day 20 (D20) and follow-up (D60) of Case 2. Y-axis: 2 µV/division (for pudendal nerve 0.5µV/division), X-axis: 20 ms/division At the initial neuro-urological evaluation, which took place two days after the ESI, clinical findings included stress urinary incontinence with preserved spontaneous voiding and no post-void residual. In the free uroflowmetry, a flattened flow curve was observed (Fig. 6). The video-urodynamic examination revealed an acontractile detrusor, which did not recover over the course of 2 years (Fig. 7). Bladder emptying was possible likely with abdominal pressure and a weakened urinary stream but without post-void residual. This may only be possible because of reduced sphincter tone due to denervation. Fig. 6Free Uroflowmetry of Case 2 with a flattened and prolongated curve without post-void residual. Voided volume: 250 mL, peak urinary flow rate (Qmax): 9.2 mL/s Free Uroflowmetry of Case 2 with a flattened and prolongated curve without post-void residual. Voided volume: 250 mL, peak urinary flow rate (Qmax): 9.2 mL/s Fig. 7Video-urodynamic findings of Case 2 Video-urodynamic findings of Case 2 The patient shared following perspective: “Before this fatal intervention I just had lower back issues. Now I am dealing with considerable bowel- and bladder- problems which massively impact my quality of life. Sexual activity is no longer possible. My freedom of movement is limited as I cannot leave the house without incontinence pads.” “Before this fatal intervention I just had lower back issues. Now I am dealing with considerable bowel- and bladder- problems which massively impact my quality of life. Sexual activity is no longer possible. My freedom of movement is limited as I cannot leave the house without incontinence pads.”