A 79-year-old man presented with pain in the lateral aspect of his right thigh. The patient was 171 cm tall, weighed 63.6 kg, and had a body mass index (BMI) of 21.7. Neurological examination revealed no significant muscle weakness in either lower limb. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed disc bulging at the L3/4 and L4/5 levels (Figure 1), and nerve root block injections at these levels provided marked symptom relief. (A) Sagittal. (B, C) Axial. T2-weighted MRI performed preoperatively showing lumbar disc herniation (white arrow). Based on these findings, a microscopic discectomy was performed under general anesthesia in the prone position. The patient’s body was stabilized in the prone position using a four-point support bed, which secured both sides of the thorax and the iliac regions. A midline incision was made on the back, and the right-sided paraspinal muscles were dissected. Partial laminectomies at the L3/4 and L4/5 on the right side were performed. Then, the herniated disc within the spinal canal was removed as much as possible. The surgery was completed without any evident nerve injury. Intraoperative motor evoked potentials (MEPs) showed no decrease in amplitude, and no abnormal free-running was recorded. A postoperative MRI examination performed 10 days after surgery confirmed adequate decompression at the L3/4 and L4/5 levels (Figure 2). (A) Sagittal. (B,C) Axial. T2-weighted MRI performed postoperatively after 10 days showing good decompression in the spinal canal. Immediately after the surgery, while the lateral thigh pain improved, the patient subsequently developed anterior thigh pain and muscle weakness, which led to difficulty walking. Manual muscle testing revealed a strength of 4/5 in hip flexion and knee extension muscles. In contrast, the knee flexors, ankle flexion and extension, and extensor hallucis longus were graded as 5/5. The pain in the front of the thigh extended from the groin to a wide area above the knee. Pain in the groin area was elicited during hip extension, and a positive Tinel-like sign was observed over the rectus femoris near the inguinal ligament. We applied ultrasound along the longitudinal axis of the rectus femoris muscle to observe the targeted structures (Figure 3). The anatomical relationship between the muscles and the nerves in the anterior aspect of the right thigh is illustrated. The dashed rectangle indicates the position where the ultrasound probe was applied. Image credit: Original creation. The nerve located lateral to the femoral artery and vein was visualized as a uniform, hypoechoic structure. To evaluate the degree of femoral nerve gliding and compression, flexion and extension movements were performed. Specifically, with the hip joint extended, passive flexion and extension of the knee were conducted while simultaneously using ultrasound to observe the branches of the femoral nerve coursing beneath the rectus femoris muscle. Ultrasound imaging showed no hematoma in the rectus femoris, suggesting that nerve traction or direct compression was the likely cause of the patient's symptoms (Figure 4A). Rehabilitation focusing on promoting contraction of the rectus femoris was initiated. After two weeks of therapy, the patient significantly improved pain, muscle strength, and walking ability. The Tinel-like sign in the groin had disappeared. Ultrasound examination showed improved gliding of the femoral nerve and rectus femoris muscle, and improvement in compression of the femoral nerve in the hip extension position was confirmed (Figure 4B). During severe pain (A), the gap (indicated by a white arrowhead) through which the femoral nerve passed was observed. Upon symptom improvement (B), this gap was enlarged, and nerve gliding was notably enhanced.