The patient experienced lower back pain for approximately 5 years, initially occurring during walking. Over time, the pain gradually became more intense, and in the past years, the patient developed further pain in the front of the thigh. These symptoms worsened with standing and walking. There was no weakness of the lower limbs or bladder/rectum dysfunction. X-ray imaging revealed an L4 hemivertebra with mild scoliosis [Figure 1a]. Computed tomography imaging confirmed the presence of an L4 hemivertebra, along with osteophyte and sclerotic changes at the L3/5 level [Figure 1b and c]. Magnetic resonance imaging identified left foraminal stenosis associated with degenerated intervertebral disc [Figure 1d]. These findings suggested that the primary etiology of the symptoms was local spinal instability and nerve compression related to L4 hemivertebra, rather than scoliosis. Consequently, short-segment fixation surgery was considered the appropriate intervention. On the whole-spine X-ray, an L4 hemivertebra with mild scoliosis was observed (a). Computed tomography scans clearly showed the presence of the L4 hemivertebra, and osteophyte and endplate sclerosis at the L3/5 level were also identified (b and c). Magnetic resonance imaging revealed left foraminal stenosis, associated with a degenerative disc (d) The surgical procedure was performed under general anesthesia with the patient in the right lateral position, using the O-arm navigation system. A reference arc for intraoperative navigation was placed into the iliac crest through a minimal skin incision. The approach to the lateral aspect of the lumbar spine was made via the retroperitoneal space. With the assistance of the navigation system, the intervertebral disc space was identified, and a retractor was appropriately positioned. A 9 mm × 40 mm cage was then precisely inserted with the aid of the navigation and intraoperative fluoroscopy [Figure 2]. The patient was subsequently repositioned to the prone position for the insertion of bilateral L3 and L5 pedicle screws, as well as a right L4 pedicle screw, under navigation guidance. With the reference arc placed into the iliac crest, the intraoperative navigation system was used to identify the disc space (a). The appropriate size cage was then inserted into the correct position, guided by the navigation system and intraoperative fluoroscopy (b-d) Postoperative imaging confirmed the appropriate positioning of the cage and pedicle screws [Figure 3]. The patient experienced resolution of the left leg and back pain following the surgery, although a mild sensory disturbance persisted in the anterior region of the left thigh. At the 2-year postoperative follow-up, the patient’s symptoms had not changed. Postoperative X-ray (a and b) and computed tomography images (c) confirmed the intervertebral cage and pedicle screws were in the correct position