A 27-year-old Malay gentleman presented to the Sport and Exercise Medicine clinic with left-sided lower back pain radiating to the left thigh for the last six months. He reported intermittent lower back pain for the last three years, with symptoms worsening over the last six months. This happened insidiously without any precipitating trauma. There was lower back stiffness with no associated paraesthesia, numbness, or weakness. He reported that his symptoms worsened with activities involving both flexion and extension, and were aggravated by prolonged sitting, standing, and lying down. On examination, the patient exhibited tenderness over the L4/5 region, with a globally limited lumbar range of motion due to pain and a large body habitus. The straight leg raise test demonstrated tight hamstrings bilaterally at 60 degrees, with no sciatica. Neurological examination of the lower limb, including tone, power, sensation and reflexes, was intact. Notably, he had gouty tophi with tenderness and swelling over his right elbow and right lateral malleolus. The patient had a background of morbid obesity (BMI > 40) and poorly controlled gout. His gout was first diagnosed at age 17 when he presented with episodic bilateral foot and ankle pain. Subsequently, he underwent right ankle arthroscopic debridement and os trigonum excision, where intra-operative findings revealed gout-like deposits over the posterior talus. Histopathological examination confirmed amorphous uric acid deposits, and his serum uric acid level was 707 μmol/L (Table 1). He was subsequently started on allopurinol but had been non-compliant with treatment and defaulted on follow-ups. The patient was referred for a lumbar spine X-ray, which showed mild loss of lumbar lordosis and preserved vertebral body heights and normal intervertebral disc space (Figure 1). A contrast-enhanced MRI of the lumbar spine was done, revealing T1-weighted contrast enhancement at the L4-L5 facet joint area and a possible punched-out erosion (Figures 2-3), suggestive of facet joint gouty arthropathy and tophaceous changes, given his history of poorly controlled gout. A repeat uric acid level was done, which was 594 μmol/L. His allopurinol was subsequently restarted upon diagnosis of axial gout and uptitrated to 400 mg following consultation with the rheumatologist. He was also given etoricoxib and oral prednisolone for gout flares, as well as a prophylactic dose of colchicine upon starting treatment. He was also referred to a dietitian and started on a weight management programme for his obesity. He is still undergoing treatment and follow-up with rheumatology and is pending repeat uric acid levels and monitoring for improvement of symptoms.