A 54-year-old Chinese male had bilateral leg numbness with neurogenic claudication for 3 months. Patient received spinal surgery but urine retention was noted after operation. Patient underwent spinal surgery. On the second postoperative day, the patient was unable to urinate after the removal of the Foley catheter and required reinsertion. He complained of constipation and mild weakness in both legs while standing. Patient had lumbago for a decade and progressed recently. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings indicated severe stenosis and disk bulging at L4-L5. To treat this condition, on October 22, 2020, the patient underwent L4 bilateral laminotomy, L4-L5 microdiscectomy, and interbody fusion with cage and bone graft, along with posterior lateral fixation using pedicle screws and rods. The implants were confirmed using C-arm X-ray fluoroscopy. No difficulties were encountered in hemostasis or closure. After surgery, he experienced severe numbness in the bilateral shank, radiating to the planta and perineum, except in the L5 area. Patient had hypertension and chronic kidney disease, stage 3. The patient denied any family history of neurological malignancy. On physical examination, severe numbness and weakness in the bilateral shank, radiating to the planta and perineum in S1,2 dermatome but except in the L5 area. Urine retention and constipation were also noted. No abnormality was found in routine blood and urine analyses, including electrolyte imbalance or urinary tract infection. Postoperative MRI findings indicated signs of epidural hematoma and compressive stenosis at L4-L5 (Figure 1). On the seventh postoperative day, the patient underwent re-exploration, and only minimal hematoma, Gelfoam, and DuraGem were observed at the epidural space. The dura was loosened after removal of the hematoma and Gelfoam. Although slight improvement was observed in the perineum and shank numbness, urinary retention persisted. The cystometrogram results indicated no bladder contraction or a delayed first sensation (Figure 2A). Transrectal ultrasound indicated a prostate size of approximately 23 mL and prostate enlargement was not associated with his symptoms. Magnetic resonance imaging findings before and after spinal surgery. A: Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); B: Postoperative day5 MRI showed decreased diameter of the spinal canal at L4-5 level with spinal stenosis, suspected local hematoma (arrow); C: MRI at 3 months later after the repeated exploration. Postoperative cystometrogram. A: Postoperative cystometrogram at day 7 showed no bladder contraction even until the capacity to 424 mL and delay first sensation; B: Postoperative cystometrogram at 3 weeks showed some bladder contraction but high compliance.