A 50-year-old man with no significant past medical history reported a one-month history of progressive symptoms that initially manifested as intermittent neurogenic claudication associated with mild weakness in the left lower limb. Shortly thereafter, low back pain developed, typically triggered by prolonged standing and heavy lifting. Over the subsequent weeks, the symptoms gradually intensified, with the onset of left-sided lumbosciatica accompanied by a progressive sensation of heaviness in the left lower limb. On general physical examination, the patient was alert and oriented, with no signs of systemic illness or fever. Neurological assessment revealed a steppage gait on the left side. A lumbar spinal syndrome was present, along with radicular symptoms following the left L5 distribution. A motor deficit consistent with L5 involvement (foot dorsiflexion) was 1/5 (Medical Research Council scale (MRC)). There were no sensory deficits or genitourinary sphincter disturbances. Laboratory work-up was unremarkable. MRI lumbar spine showed a T2 heterogeneous epidural mass at the L4-L5 level, measuring 4.0×1.9×1.7 cm (craniocaudal×anteroposterior×transverse) and the lesion appears as hypointense with a core of hyperintensity (Figure 1A). A contrast-enhanced MRI with gadolinium revealed peripheral enhancement of the same lesion, confirming its epidural nature (Figure 1B, C). CCxAPxT: Craniocaudal × Anteroposterior × Transverse The patient underwent surgical decompression via L4-L5 laminectomy and left partial facetectomy. Intraoperatively, an epidural mass was identified occupying the anterior epidural space at the L4-L5 level. The lesion appeared consistent with a giant lumbar disc herniation, as indicated by the asterisk in (Figure 2). The mass was removed without performing a discectomy. The intervertebral disc space was noted to be narrowed, and an L5 foraminotomy was performed. At the end of the procedure, the L5 nerve root was free and decompressed (Figure 3). Histopathological examination revealed a cartilaginous lesion (disc material) with no evidence of neoplastic proliferation (Figure 4). Postoperatively, the patient demonstrated a partial recovery of left lower limb motor function (MRC scale grade 3/5) following physiotherapy sessions, with complete resolution of lumbosciatica. At a three-month follow-up, the patient remained asymptomatic, with a residual L5 motor deficit.