A 66-year-old female patient with ankylosing spondylitis sustained a fall while cooking, resulting in a superficial burn and an unstable L2 chalk-stick fracture typical of ankylosing spondylitis. Figure 1 shows the preoperative CT demonstrating the unstable L2 fracture. Sagittal CT image showing an unstable L2 chalk-stick fracture prior to surgical intervention. Upon admission, she was found to be in new-onset atrial fibrillation. Following multidisciplinary optimization, she underwent navigated MIS posterior stabilization using percutaneous pedicle screws from T11 to L1 and L3 to L5, sparing L2. Intraoperative fluoroscopy confirmed accurate pedicle screw placement from T11 to L1 above the fracture site, as illustrated in Figure 2. The lower instrumentation was performed subsequently and is not included in this image. Fluoroscopic image showing intraoperative pedicle screw placement from T11 to L1 above the L2 fracture site. The lower instrumentation from L3 to L5 was performed subsequently but is not included in this image, as the vascular complication was localized to the upper construct. The operation was uneventful, though High Dependency Unit (HDU) monitoring was required postoperatively for cardiologic instability. Recovery remained uncomplicated until postoperative day 12, when the patient developed sudden, painful swelling in the right paraspinal region. An initial CT scan revealed a moderate paraspinal hematoma near the screw site. A subsequent CT angiography confirmed active arterial bleeding from an intramuscular vessel, forming a pseudoaneurysm, as illustrated in Figure 3. Axial (left) and sagittal (right) CT angiography images showing a well‑defined intramuscular hematoma adjacent to the pedicle screw tract. The axial image includes a reference line indicating the corresponding sagittal level. Imaging features are consistent with a pseudoaneurysm. Emergency fluoroscopy-guided thrombin injection was performed by interventional radiology with complete resolution of symptoms within 48 hours. The patient had been commenced on apixaban 48 hours after surgery for newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation and was receiving anticoagulation at the time of presentation. She was discharged in stable condition after several days of inpatient monitoring, and remained asymptomatic with no recurrence at six‑week and five-month clinic follow‑up.