An eight-year-old boy was initially noted by his mother to have slurred speech, drooling from the mouth, and right-hand weakness. He was initially seen in the emergency department. On examination, there were mild dysarthria, right upper extremity weakness (4/5 strength), and slightly decreased coordination on finger-to-nose testing. Cranial nerve evaluation revealed no deficits in extraocular movements or facial symmetry. Deep tendon reflexes in the upper extremities were normal, and no sensory loss was reported. A brain CT scan revealed a lesion involving the brainstem. A subsequent brain MRI revealed an expansile 4.3 x 2.2 x 4.6 cm heterogeneous T2 hyperintense T1 hypointense intra-axial mass lesion with an epicenter in the pons. (T2 MRI sequences highlight variations in water content and other tissue characteristics. T1 images appear bright (hyperintense) when imaging fatty tissue, and an abnormally low signal on T1 images frequently indicates a pathological process such as trauma, infection, or cancer.) These T1 and T2 findings on MRI were consistent with an underlying pediatric diffuse midline glioma or DIPG (Figure 1). He underwent a course of definitive radiotherapy to the brainstem lesion. He received a total dose of 5040 cGy in 28 fractions to the brainstem lesion plus a 1 cm margin using intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) (Figure 2). Gross tumor volume (GTV) is the brown contour; planning target volume (PTV) is the dark blue contour; green contour is the 95% isodose line; yellow contour is the 80% isodose line; magenta contour is the 50% isodose line Eighteen months after the completion of radiation treatment, he began experiencing increasing lower extremity pain and difficulty ambulating. He had been discharged from a prior emergency department visit after transient symptom improvement. Over the following weeks, his symptoms progressed, including severe bilateral lower extremity pain, inability to ambulate, refusal to move his left lower extremity, abdominal pain, urinary incontinence, and constipation for over a week. On the day of presentation, he developed worsening neurological decline, including lower extremity weakness, urinary incontinence, and respiratory failure, requiring resuscitation and subsequent admission to the pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). Upon admission to the PICU, he was intubated due to respiratory distress. Neurological examination at that time revealed equal, round, and reactive pupils with a symmetric facial appearance. He withdrew his upper extremities to noxious stimuli but exhibited no motor response in the lower extremities. The biceps reflexes were preserved bilaterally, while patellar reflexes were absent. A non-contrast head CT revealed no acute changes compared to prior imaging. The pontine mass at the craniocervical junction remained stable, per an MRI of the brain. However, an MRI of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine revealed extensive lobulated intradural lesions extending from the upper thoracic spine to the sacrum, causing significant mass effect and cord displacement, most notably at T1-T2 and T10-T11. The lesions encased the cauda equina and filled the lower lumbosacral spine from L3 to S2 level with associated mass effect on the cauda equina (Figures 3, 4). He underwent a course of salvage radiation therapy to the craniospinal axis following disease progression. Due to concerns of impending spinal cord compression, he initially received 800 cGy in four fractions targeting the lower cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine to allow for immediate treatment initiation while the volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) plan was being finalized (which required 2-4 days). VMAT is a radiation therapy technique using multiple arcs to treat the patient, which has been shown to have significant dosimetric advantages compared to conformal radiation therapy [6]. Once the VMAT plan was completed, the patient received an additional 3600 cGy in 18 fractions to the craniospinal axis, excluding the brainstem. To compensate for the initial exclusion of the upper cervical spine, this region was treated with a slightly higher dose of 220 cGy per fraction to ensure adequate coverage. The clinical target volume included the brain (excluding the brain stem) and the spinal cord, extending inferiorly to the filum terminale as noted on MRI. A PTV margin of 0.5 cm for the brain and 1 cm for the spinal cord was applied (Figure 5) [7]. The 4000 cGy isodose line is green; the 5000 cGy isodose line is yellow; the 6000 cGy isodose line is dark blue The brain, with the dose limited to the brainstem, was also treated secondary to concerns of metastatic disease seeding the brain. The total dose was approximately 4400 cGy in 22 fractions to the PTV, which included the craniospinal axis, with the dose limited to the brainstem [6,8,9]. The decision to proceed with a definitive course of radiation therapy and not a palliative course was discussed in our pediatric tumor board. The decision to proceed with definitive radiation was to obtain long-term disease control. An MRI obtained near the completion of radiation therapy revealed a marked reduction in the size of the spinal lesions, with decreased mass effect on the cervical and thoracic spinal cord. The brain MRI remained stable. The patient was discharged from the PICU and did not require ventilation after five days of radiation therapy. However, he developed significant left upper extremity paralysis and partial right upper extremity weakness. He remained paraplegic below the trunk with bladder and bowel incontinence. His overall condition stabilized post-treatment, though with severe neurological deficits. He was discharged with home healthcare and underwent physical therapy. A summary plan for the radiation therapy was generated, and the mean radiation dose to the brainstem was 6532 cGy. The spinal cord and optic nerves received a maximum dose of 4575 cGy and 5673 cGy, respectively. The dose to the kidneys was within tolerance, with less than 10% of the volume of the right and the left kidney combined receiving greater than 1800 cGy. The following constraints were identified for the treatment of these patients. The maximum dose to the spinal cord (Dmax) was less than 4600 cGy; an attempt was made to keep the brainstem as low as possible and to keep the optic chiasm below 6000 cGy. The dose to the spinal cord was based on medulloblastoma craniospinal data in which the spinal cord in a patient with diffuse disease is limited to 4500 cGy, and the brain is treated with the same dose with a boost to the posterior fossa or the areas of disease to 5400 cGy [6,8,9]. Since the disease appeared not to have significantly progressed in the brainstem, the decision was made to keep the dose to the brainstem as low as possible. Secondary to concerns of long-term toxicity with this treatment, the dose to the spinal cord and the brainstem was planned as low as possible. A dose-volume histogram is displayed in Figure 6. Blue indicates the brainstem; green indicates the spinal cord; red indicates the optic chiasm; orange indicates the kidneys An MRI of the brain, cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine obtained near the completion of radiation therapy revealed a marked reduction in the size of the spinal lesions, with decreased mass effect on the cervical and thoracic spinal cord. The brain MRI remained stable. The patient was discharged from the PICU and did not require ventilation after five days of radiation therapy. However, he developed significant left upper extremity paralysis and partial right upper extremity weakness. He remained paraplegic below the trunk with bladder and bowel incontinence. His overall condition stabilized post-treatment, though with severe neurological deficits. He was discharged with home healthcare and underwent physical therapy. Two months status post-treatment, his condition did not worsen clinically, and he had minimal improvement in his lower or upper extremity strength. A brain MRI showed that the pontine glioma appeared grossly stable in size with post-radiation changes. An MRI of the spine obtained two months after the completion of treatment revealed innumerable lobulated non-enhancing intradural lesions throughout the spine. Some of these lesions remained stable, and some had progressed in size (Figure 7). He continued to decline neurologically and was placed in hospice. This case highlights the rare presentation of DIPG with extensive spinal metastases and underscores the importance of vigilant neurological monitoring and timely imaging in patients with progressive symptoms. A summary of his treatment is shown in Table 1.