A 31-year-old female patient, parturient, Gravida 2 Parity 1, with a body mass index (BMI) of 25 kg/m2, not known to have any medical illness apart from uneventful previous cesarean section under spinal anesthesia underwent an emergency cesarean section due to failure to progress. Spinal anesthesia was performed by an anesthesiologist using 23-gauge Quincke spinal needle with a paramedian approach at the level of L3–L4, it required four attempts to achieve successful spinal blockade, and the surgery lasted for an hour and was uneventful. On the first postoperative day, the patient started to complain of pressure headache that was associated with abdominal pain radiating to the lower back, not subsiding with painkillers. The intensity of headache started to increase, dizziness and blurry vision began to develop, and no other neurological symptoms. Post dural puncture headache (PDPH) was suspected; upon that, the patient was offered an epidural blood patch to relieve the symptoms as an epidural wet tab was suspected. Unfortunately, she refused this intervention. A series of multiple radiological studies were conducted for further investigation and management. A computed tomography (CT) brain scan was performed. However, it showed no evidence of mass effect, infarction, or intracranial bleeding. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lumbar spine [Figure 1] was performed, which revealed right peri-nephric and retroperitoneal subacute hematoma and no evidence of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak or collection. CT angiography of abdominal aorta was conducted and demonstrated a presence of large retroperitoneal high-density collection suggesting hematoma. Angiography failed to demonstrate active bleeding. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lumbar spine showing right peri-nephric and retroperitoneal subacute hematoma Laboratory were repeated, and the result showed out significant drop in her hemoglobin level to 7 g/dl in comparison with her admission hemoglobin level of 8.6 g/dl with normal coagulation profile. The patient was transfused with two packed red blood cells. Her symptoms started to improve gradually, and she was discharged home after a total of 8 days of admission for observation. No surgical intervention was attempted as the patient’s condition started to improve; she was discharged afterward as her symptoms subsided. A follow-up abdominal CT was conducted after a month and demonstrated interval resolution of the previously noted right retroperitoneal hematoma.