A 56-year-old man presented with weakness in both lower extremities that had begun two weeks prior. One week prior to his hospital visit, he fell while walking and subsequently developed numbness in the soles of both feet, as well as urinary and fecal incontinence. This prompted him to seek medical attention. He has a 10-year history of hypertension and hyperuricemia. Two years ago, he developed tophi in several areas of his body and began experiencing chronic back pain. One year later, the patient underwent staged surgery to remove the tophi from both hands. Examination following admission revealed numbness below the groin level, muscle strength in both lower extremities at approximately Grade 4, positive ankle clonus, weakened anal sphincter contraction, and an absent cremasteric reflex, ASIA Impairment Scale (AIS) grade was D. The serum uric acid (UA) level was measured at 519.70 µmol/L. MRI revealed epidural lesions at the T8–T9 thoracic spinal levels, accompanied by spinal cord compression (Figure 1). Given the patient's long-standing history of gout, dual-energy CT (DECT) was performed, which confirmed the deposition of MSU within the lesions (Figure 2). One week later, the serum UA level was 382.8 µmol/L. The patient subsequently underwent surgical intervention, which included spinal canal decompression, lesion removal, pedicle screw fixation, and posterolateral bone grafting using artificial bone (Figure 3). After the operation, the patient's numbness below the groin level was alleviated, and the strength of the key muscles in the lower extremities was assessed at Grade 4. Additionally, the patient participated in rehabilitation training. Two weeks after surgery, the surgical incision had healed, and the stitches were removed. Bowel and bladder function, perineal sensation, and muscle strength in both lower extremities returned to normal, AIS grade was E. Febuxostat was subsequently administered orally. Postoperative pathological examination confirmed that the lesions both inside and outside the spinal canal were tophi (Figure 4). After discharge, the patient continued to take febuxostat orally and was monitored for ten months. The results of the neurological examination were normal, and the serum UA levels remained within the normal range. Thoracic spinal epidural lesion on MRI: (A) T1-weighted imaging (T1WI), (B) T2-weighted imaging (T2WI), (C) T2-weighted fat-suppressed imaging (T2W-FS), (D) T2WI transverse axis view. An irregular lesion exhibiting long T1 and short T2 signal intensity is observed in the epidural space of the thoracic spinal canal at the T8-T9 levels. The lesion demonstrated isointensity on T2W-FS. Spinal cord compression is evident. DECT imaging: (A) sagittal view, (B) coronal view, (C) transverse view, (D) 3D reconstruction. Mottled and nodular green pseudocolor coding, which indicates urate deposition, is observed in the following locations: the margins of the thoracic vertebral bodies and articular processes; the left interlaminar spaces of T7–T10; the right interlaminar spaces of T8–T9; and nodular deposits within the spinal canal. Intraoperative photos and postoperative imaging (A) intraoperative view: gypsum-like white particles (indicative of calcific or urate deposits) are present within the interlaminar space (indicated by the arrow). (B) Postdecompression: Gypsum-like white particle deposits in the left spinal canal cause spinal cord compression and deformation (indicated by the arrow). (C,D) Postoperative anteroposterior and lateral x-rays: demonstrating adequate decompression and restoration of spinal canal integrity. Pathological and surgical specimens: (A) photomicrograph outside the spinal canal; (B) photomicrograph inside the spinal canal; (C) appearance of the vertebral lamina following en bloc resection. Gypsum-like white particle is MSU.