A 55-year-old male (height: 174 cm; weight: 88 kg) was admitted to Changde Hospital, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University(The first people’s hospital of Changde city) for left buttock and lower limb pain lasting 9 months. The pain, described as a persistent, moderate, dull ache localized to the left buttock, posterior thigh, and posterolateral calf, worsened with walking and lacked a relieving posture. The pain did not occur at night. The patient had no familial history of genetic diseases and no remarkable past medical history. Physical examination revealed tenderness and radiating pain at the L4/5 intervertebral space, radiating to the left posterior thigh, posterolateral calf, and dorsum of the left foot. Positive left straight leg raise test at 40° and positive reinforcement test. Lumbar X-rays revealed degenerative lumbar changes and sacral lumbarization, with no evidence of spondylolisthesis or instability (Figure 1). Lumbar disk computed tomography (CT) showed osteophytosis and bulging of the L3-L5 intervertebral disks, without spinal canal stenosis (Figure 2). Electromyography(EMG) of the lower limbs indicated chronic neurogenic damage in the left L5-innervated muscles, suggestive of lumbosacral nerve root involvement. Selective nerve root block (SNRB) of the left L5 nerve root under ultrasound and neurostimulation guidance resulted in significant pain relief, implicating the left L5 nerve root as the source of pathology. Lumbar MRI (plain and contrast-enhanced) demonstrated a cystic lesion at the left L5 nerve root (Figure 3). Based on the patient’s symptoms, physical signs, and imaging findings, a left L5 radiculopathy is suspected. Following comprehensive preoperative evaluation and exclusion of surgical contraindications, the patient underwent AUSS (Arthroscopic-assisted Uni-portal Spinal Surgery) endoscopic intraspinal lesion resection under general anesthesia on June 15, 2025. During the procedure, a well-circumscribed, cylindrical tumor (0.8 cm × 0.6 cm × 0.5 cm) was identified adherent to the dorsal aspect of the dura and the left L5 nerve root, causing significant compression (Figure 4). The tumor was well-demarcated from the nerve roots, with a complete capsule. It was soft in consistency, pale yellow, and semi-translucent in appearance. The tumor was completely excised and sent for pathological examination. On the second day after surgery, the patient’s pain in the left buttock and left lower limb improved significantly, with the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) score decreasing from 7 to 2 points. Research has shown that, in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain, a reduction of one point or a reduction of 15.0% in the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) represents the minimal clinically important difference (MCID)—the smallest change perceived as clinically meaningful—while a NRS change score of −2.0 or a percent change score of −33.0% is generally considered a “much better” improvement (5). This marked reduction in pain indicated excellent surgical outcomes. The postoperative pathological diagnosis (Figure 4B) revealed a ‘spinal canal’ spindle cell tumor, consistent with a schwannoma. A postoperative lumbar CT scan showed no abnormalities. During the 2-month follow-up, the patient’s left buttock and left lower limb pain symptoms had almost completely resolved (Figure 5). Patient reported: “Pain relief allowed return to work.” Lumbar spine X-ray. Panels (A–D) represent the anteroposterior, lateral, hyperextension, and hyperflexion views, respectively. Lumbar intervertebral disk CT. Panels (A–C) correspond to the sagittal, coronal, and axial planes, respectively. Lumbar intervertebral disk MRI with and without contrast. Panels (A–G) depict the sagittal T1-weighted, sagittal T1-weighted post-contrast, sagittal T2-weighted, sagittal T2-weighted fat-suppressed, axial T1-weighted, axial T1-weighted post-contrast, and coronal T1-weighted post-contrast, respectively. The red arrow indicates the schwannoma. Gross and microscopic specimens of the schwannoma. Panel A displays the gross appearance of the tumor, while Panel B shows the microscopic features (left: 10 × 4 magnification; right: 10 × 10 magnification). Timeline of clinical events.