A 76-year-old Chinese male patient presented with numbness and weakness of the lower limbs that rapidly progressed to complete paralysis within 4 days. Patient was diagnosed with spinal dural arteriovenous fistula after magnetic resonance imaging and spinal vascular angiography, undergoing bilateral internal iliac artery embolization 2 weeks later, and started rehabilitation 40 days later but only received minimal improvement 1 year thereafter. A 76-year-old Chinese male patient was admitted to our rehabilitation medicine department on 7 May 2022 due to progressive numbness and weakness of the lower limbs and urinary and defecation disorders for more than 1 month. The patient had a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and atrial fibrillation and no history of smoking or alcohol consumption. The patient began experiencing numbness and weakness in both lower limbs without obvious cause while sleeping in bed at approximately 1:00 am on 27 March. Although he was able to walk independently, he experienced leg pain while walking, accompanied by low back pain and dysuresia. The above symptoms gradually worsened, and the patient needed to walk with crutches the next day and could not walk or urinate and defecate 4 days later. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar vertebrae at the local hospital revealed suspicious spinal cord lesions at the T9–12 level, and enhanced MRI of the thoracic vertebrae revealed abnormal enhancement in the middle and lower segments of the thoracic medulla. Lumbar puncture revealed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure of 100 mmH2O, white blood cell count of 10 × 106/L (lymphocytes accounted for 85%), protein concentration of 2.79 g/L, glucose concentration of 4.9 mmol/L, and lactate concentration of 4.47 mmol/L. CSF was negative for pathogens and for immune-associated antibodies including anti-APQ4 antibody, anti-MBP (Myelin Basic Protein) antibody, and anti-MOG (myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein) antibody. Patient’s initial diagnosis was considered inflammatory demyelinating myelopathy, and treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IG; 37.5 g/d for 5 days) and corticosteroids (dexamethasone 10 mg/d for 5 days) was administered; however, no symptom improvement was observed. A total of 17 days later, the patient was referred to the neurology department of our hospital, and enhanced MRI of the thoracic vertebra revealed multiple abnormal signals in the thoracic medulla at the level of the T8–12 vertebra and a visible vascular shadow on the dorsal spinal cord (Fig 1). The possibility of spinal cord ischemia caused by arteriovenous malformations was then considered after completing contrast-enhanced magnetic angiography (CEMRA) of the spinal cord (Fig 2). Bilateral spinal dural arteriovenous fistulas (fistulas located in a branch of the bilateral internal iliac artery, with both sides draining to the level of the sixth intercostal artery through the tortuous thickened veins of the spinal cord) were confirmed after spinal vascular angiography 26 days later (Fig 3). Bilateral spinal dural arteriovenous fistula embolization was performed 33 days post-onset. Compared with complete paraplegia (0/5 muscle strength of both lower limbs) at baseline, there was a slight improvement in muscle strength in both distal lower extremities after embolization.Fig. 1Enhanced MR images of the thoracic vertebrae: A-D show the T2, STIR, enhanced sequence and axial scans, respectively. Multiple strips of slightly longer T2 signal shadows were observed in the thoracic medulla at the level of the T8-12 vertebra, STIR showed high signal intensity, and mild linear enhancement was observed on the enhanced sequence (long red arrow). Multiple empty shadows of vascular flow were observed in the dorsal spinal cord of the corresponding segments (short red arrows)Fig. 2Contrast-enhanced magnetic angiography (CEMRA) of the spinal cord: Varicose veins were observed in the spinal nerve root veins of the corresponding segmentsFig. 3Angiography of the spinal vasculature and internal iliac artery: arteriovenous fistula staining was observed in the bilateral internal iliac arteries, and the fistulas were located in branches of the bilateral internal iliac artery. Both sides are drained to the level of the 6th intercostal artery through the tortuous thickened veins of the spinal cord Enhanced MR images of the thoracic vertebrae: A-D show the T2, STIR, enhanced sequence and axial scans, respectively. Multiple strips of slightly longer T2 signal shadows were observed in the thoracic medulla at the level of the T8-12 vertebra, STIR showed high signal intensity, and mild linear enhancement was observed on the enhanced sequence (long red arrow). Multiple empty shadows of vascular flow were observed in the dorsal spinal cord of the corresponding segments (short red arrows) Contrast-enhanced magnetic angiography (CEMRA) of the spinal cord: Varicose veins were observed in the spinal nerve root veins of the corresponding segments Angiography of the spinal vasculature and internal iliac artery: arteriovenous fistula staining was observed in the bilateral internal iliac arteries, and the fistulas were located in branches of the bilateral internal iliac artery. Both sides are drained to the level of the 6th intercostal artery through the tortuous thickened veins of the spinal cord His physical examination at the time of admission revealed that his muscle strength was 5/5 in the upper extremities; 0/5 in the bilateral hip flexor muscle group; 2/5 in the bilateral knee extensor muscle group, ankle dorsiflexor muscle group, and ankle plantar flexor muscle group; 2/5 in the left toe extensor muscle group; and 0/5 in the right toe extensor muscle group on the basis of the Global Oxford Scale. Spasticity was not observed. Bilateral knee and left ankle reflexes were weakened, and the right ankle reflex was not elicited. Babinski reflex was positive in the left foot and not evoked in the right foot. On the basis of sensory examination, hypoesthesia was observed starting from the T12 level. No obvious anal contraction was observed in the digital diagnosis, but deep anal pressure and shallow anal sensation were retained, and the bulbocavernosus reflex was present. Rehabilitation evaluation results were as follows: the neurological level of injury was at T12, and the impairment scale (AIS) grade was B (incomplete injury) according to the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) 2019 classification, the zones of partial motor preservation were left S1 and right S1, respectively. Modified Barthel index was 20/100. Modified Aminoff-Logue Scale (mALS) score was 11/11, indicating severe disability (gait—requires a wheelchair “5,” urination—persistent incontinence or retention “3,” and defecation—persistent incontinence “3”). The results of the auxiliary examinations were as follows: ultrasonography of blood vessels in both lower limbs revealed no venous thrombosis. Urodynamic examination revealed a low-compliance bladder with decreased bladder volume in the urinary storage period, and abdominal pressure-assisted initiation of urination, detrusor hyperreflexia, and low-flow urination in the urination stage. The rehabilitation treatment was as follows: limb motor function training, including basic movement training, muscle strength training, balance training, electric standing bed, neuromuscular electrical stimulation, and lower limb exoskeleton robot to improve lower limb motor function. Abdominal interference electricity to improve the neurogenic bladder (a muscarinic receptor antagonist was also given to relieve overactive bladder) and the neurogenic bowel. An air pressure-circulating pump was used to prevent thrombosis of the lower extremity vein. Each training session lasted 20 minutes, once per day, 5 days per week for 4 weeks. After 4 weeks of rehabilitation training, the re-examined enhanced MRI of the spinal cord showed that the vascular empty shadows on the dorsal spinal cord had decreased than before treatment (Fig 4, Fig 5), the motor function of both lower limbs slightly improved. The results of the physical examination are compared with those at admission in Table 1. Rehabilitation evaluation revealed that the neurological injury level was at L1, the AIS grade was B (incomplete injury) according to the ASIA classification, and the zones of partial motor preservation were left S1 and right S1, respectively. Modified Barthel index was 33/100, mALS score was 11/11, and 6 months after disease onset, patient underwent clean intermittent catheterization (CIC) and still had difficulty defecating. Patient’s lower limb weakness improved somewhat, but he could still not stand or walk, and 1 year later, patient could roll over independently but was still unable to stand or walk. Fig. 4Enhanced MR image of the thoracic vertebra after 4 weeks of rehabilitation training A-D show the T2, STIR, enhanced sequence and axial scans, respectively. The multiple abnormal signals and linear enhancement signals (long red arrow) in the thoracic spinal cord were similar to those in the previous examination. The empty shadows of vascular flow (short red arrows) were slightly decreased compared to beforeFig. 5Comparison of MR images of the thoracic vertebrae before and after treatment. There were fewer vascular empty shadows on the dorsal spinal cord than before treatmentTable 1Physical examination at admission and 4 weeks after rehabilitationMuscle strength of lower extremitiesTendon reflexesBabinski reflexLevel of hypoesthesiaVoluntary anal contractionDeep anal pressureBulbocavernosus reflexHip flexorKnee extensorAnkle dorsiflexorToe extensorAnkle plantar flexorKnee reflexAnkle reflexOn admissionLeft02222(+)(+)(+)T12NoYesPresentRight02202(+)(−)(−)After 4 weeksLeft2+42+22(+)(+)(+)L1NoYesPresentRight2+421+2(++)(+)(−) Enhanced MR image of the thoracic vertebra after 4 weeks of rehabilitation training A-D show the T2, STIR, enhanced sequence and axial scans, respectively. The multiple abnormal signals and linear enhancement signals (long red arrow) in the thoracic spinal cord were similar to those in the previous examination. The empty shadows of vascular flow (short red arrows) were slightly decreased compared to before Comparison of MR images of the thoracic vertebrae before and after treatment. There were fewer vascular empty shadows on the dorsal spinal cord than before treatment Physical examination at admission and 4 weeks after rehabilitation