This study was approved by the institutional review board of Osaka Rosai Hospital, and written informed consent was obtained from both patients for the publication of this case report and accompanying images. The two cases presented in this report occurred at different times. Case 1 occurred in September 2021, while Case 2 occurred in June 2023. The treatment periods and clinical courses of the two cases were not consecutive, and each case progressed independently. Each spinal sagittal parameter used in the main text is illustrated in Figure 1. a. Sagittal vertical axis (SVA): The horizontal distance between the C7 plumb line and the posterosuperior corner of S1. b. Lumbar lordosis (LL): The angle between the superior endplate of L1 and the superior endplate of S1. c. Pelvic incidence (PI): The angle between the perpendicular to the sacral plate and the line connecting the midpoint of the sacral plate. d. Sacral slope (SS): The angle between the horizontal line and the sacral plate. e. Pelvic tilt (PT): The angle between the vertical line and the line connecting the midpoint of the sacral plate to the center of the femoral heads to the center of the femoral heads. f. L5 Slope: The angle between the horizontal line and the L5 superior endplate. g. L5 Incidence: The angle between the perpendicular to the L5 superior endplate and the line connecting the midpoint of the L5 superior endplate to the center of the femoral heads. h. L4 sagittal vertical axis (L4SVA): The horizontal distance between the L4 plumb line and the posterosuperior corner of S1. Image Credits: Hideki Nishi Case 1 A 68-year-old female presented with bilateral lower limb pain and intermittent claudication for more than two years and was referred to our hospital. She had a history of hypertension and Type 1 diabetes mellitus. Preoperative dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan revealed a low bone mineral density with a T-score of -3.0 and a 60% young adult mean (YAM) at the femoral neck, but the patient had no prior history of osteoporosis treatment. No neurological deficits and decreased muscle strength were observed. Plain radiographs demonstrated Meyerding grade 2 spondylolisthesis at L4-5. The preoperative sagittal parameters were as follows: lumbar lordosis (LL) 43˚, pelvic incidence (PI) 94˚, pelvic tilt (PT) 48˚, sagittal vertical axis (SVA) 108 mm, and L4-SVA 68 mm (Figure 2a). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated L4-5 bilateral lateral recess stenosis and right foraminal stenosis. She was diagnosed with bilateral L5 radiculopathy due to L4 degenerative spondylolisthesis and underwent PLIF at the L4-5 level. Immediate postoperative radiographs confirmed optimal implant positioning with appropriate restoration of L4-5 segmental lordosis, improving from 23° preoperatively to 33° postoperatively. In contrast, overall lumbar lordosis decreased from 43° to 33°, which was insufficient to match the patient's pelvic incidence (PI), suggesting suboptimal global sagittal alignment despite the successful local correction. Five days postoperatively, she presented with left lower limb numbness. A standing radiograph showed that L4-SVA was 62 mm (Figure 2b). Subsequent computed tomography (CT) imaging revealed bilateral L5 pedicle fractures (Figure 3a). a. Preoperative sagittal whole-spine radiograph: lumbar lordosis (LL) 43˚, pelvic incidence (PI) 94˚, pelvic tilt (PT) 48˚, sagittal vertical axis (SVA) 108mm, L4 segmental lordosis 23 ˚ and L4-SVA 68mm. b. Immediate postoperative lateral lumbar radiograph: L4 segmental lordosis 33˚. c. Lateral lumbar radiograph at fracture onset: LL 40˚ and L4-SVA 62mm. d. Lateral lumbar radiograph after early ambulation. e. Lateral lumbar radiograph at final follow-up. a. Sagittal computed tomography (CT) image obtained five days postoperatively demonstrating bilateral L5 pedicle fractures. b. Sagittal CT image at three years postoperatively demonstrating complete bone union of the L5 pedicle fractures. Initially, the extension of spinal fixation to the sacrum or ilium was considered. However, given the minimal fracture displacement, we opted for conservative treatment consisting of four weeks of bed rest combined with daily subcutaneous injections of 20 µg teriparatide. She began mobilization 4 weeks after the fracture diagnosis and was discharged home at 60 days. She used soft braces for six months postoperatively after getting out of bed. At the latest follow-up, 36 months after the procedure, the patient was completely free from neurological deficits, and bone union was obtained (Figure 3b). Case 2 A 72-year-old female presented with worsening right limb pain over the past several months and a recent onset of urinary frequency. She had a history of hypertension, and preoperative DXA revealed a T-score of -1.4 and 80% YAM at the femoral neck. Plain radiographs demonstrated Meyerding grade 2 spondylolisthesis at L4-5. The preoperative sagittal parameters were as follows: LL 52˚, PI 78˚, PT 30˚, SVA 93 mm, and L4-SVA 64 mm (Figure 4a). MRI demonstrated L4-5 central stenosis with concurrent right foraminal stenosis. She was diagnosed with right L5 radiculopathy and cauda equina syndrome due to L4 degenerative spondylolisthesis and underwent PLIF at the L4-5 level. Immediate postoperative radiographs confirmed optimal implant positioning with appropriate restoration of L4-5 segmental lordosis, improving from 22° preoperatively to 28° postoperatively. In contrast, overall lumbar lordosis decreased from 61° to 60°, which was insufficient to match the patient's pelvic incidence (PI), suggesting suboptimal global sagittal alignment despite the successful local correction. Thirty-six days postoperatively, the patient developed lower back pain. A standing radiograph showed that L4-SVA was 65 mm (Figure 4b). Subsequent CT imaging studies revealed bilateral L5 pedicle fractures and subsequent development of L5-S1 spondylolisthesis (Figures 4c, 5a). a. Preoperative sagittal whole-spine radiograph: LL 61˚, PI 78˚, PT 30˚, SVA 93 mm, L4 segmental lordosis 22˚, and L4-SVA 64 mm. b. Immediate postoperative lateral lumbar radiograph: L4 segmental lordosis 28˚. c. Lateral lumbar radiograph at fracture onset showing newly developed L5 spondylolisthesis: LL 60˚ and L4-SVA 65 mm. d. Lateral lumbar radiograph after early ambulation. e. Lateral lumbar radiograph at final follow-up demonstrating no further progression of spondylolisthesis. a. Sagittal CT image obtained 36 days postoperatively demonstrating bilateral L5 pedicle fractures. b. Sagittal CT image at 1.5 years postoperatively demonstrating complete bone union of the L5 pedicle fractures. In this case too, we opted for conservative treatment consisting of bed rest combined with daily subcutaneous injections of 20 µg teriparatide to avoid extending fixation to the sacrum or ilium. She began mobilization 6 weeks after the fracture diagnosis and was discharged home at 52 days. She used soft braces for six months postoperatively after getting out of bed. At the latest follow-up, 18 months after the operation, the patient was completely free from neurological deficits, and bone union was obtained (Figure 5b).