A 59-year-old Chinese male, with a 40-year smoking history, presented to the hospital complaining of coughing, productive sputum, and hemoptysis persisting for 1 year. Chest and abdominal computed tomography scans identified a substantial mass located in the right lung hilum and mediastinum, with associated obstructive atelectasis (Fig. 1A, left). The scans further revealed invasion into the right pulmonary vessels, accompanied by tumor thrombus formation, as well as involvement of the pericardium and pleura. Extensive metastatic lesions were observed in lymph nodes at multiple sites, including bilateral cervical roots, mediastinum, right hilum, right cardiophrenic angle, and hepatogastric space. Further imaging confirmed metastases in the right adrenal gland and liver. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain identified metastatic lesions in the right frontal lobe and posterior horn of the lateral ventricle (Fig. 1A, right), while bone scanning demonstrated metastasis to the left iliac crest. Histological examination via bronchoscopic biopsy from the right middle lobe confirmed SCLC, with immunohistochemistry showing TIF(−), Ki-67 (approximately 95%), Syn(+), and CgA(+); Fig. 1C). The patient was ultimately diagnosed with extensive-stage SCLC. Radiological and pathological assessments of the patient. (A) Baseline chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a large mass in the right lung hilum and mediastinum with accompanying obstructive atelectasis (left and middle panels). Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified metastases in the right frontal lobe and the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle (right panel). (B) After therapy, a partial response was observed (left and middle). The nodules in the right frontal lobe have increased in size compared to the previous scan, while the nodules in the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle have disappeared (right). (C) At the time of initial diagnosis, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining of the bronchoscopic biopsy specimen demonstrated small round cells (left), while immunohistochemical analysis showed positive staining for synaptophysin (middle) and chromogranin A (right). (D) H&E staining of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) demonstrated small cell carcinoma cells (left), with immunohistochemical analysis confirming positivity for synaptophysin (right). CSF = cerebrospinal fluid, CT = computed tomography, H&E = hematoxylin and eosin, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. The patient subsequently received a programmed cell death protein 1 inhibitor combined with chemotherapy based on the etoposide and carboplatin regimen. After completing 4 cycles of this combined therapy, computed tomography imaging indicated a partial tumor response according to the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors version 1.1 criteria (Fig. 1B, left). After the fifth cycle, the patient experienced dizziness, progressively worsening headaches, and bilateral weakness in the lower limbs. MRI of the brain showed a slight enlargement of the lesion in the right frontal region compared to previous scans (Fig. 1B, right). However, given the small size of the parenchymal lesions and the disproportionate severity of clinical symptoms relative to MRI findings, LM was suspected. A lumbar puncture was performed, and pathological examination of the CSF confirmed small cell carcinoma (Fig. 1D). The patient received intrathecal methotrexate therapy and was scheduled promptly for whole-brain radiation therapy. During radiation treatment, the patient’s headaches intensified, and a pulmonary infection developed. Subsequently, the patient and family declined further treatment, leading to hospital discharge. Unfortunately, the patient passed away at home 3 days after discharge. NGS of the patient’s tumor tissue, blood, and CSF identified mutations in tumor protein P53, retinoblastoma 1, and MYC proto-oncogene, BHLH transcription factor like across all 3 specimens. In contrast, RPTOR independent companion of MTOR complex 2 copy number amplification was detected in both the tumor tissue and CSF but was absent in plasma. A mutation in MutS homolog 6 was found solely in the tumor tissue. Interestingly, cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4) copy number amplification was identified exclusively in the CSF (Fig. 2). (A and B) Comparison of genetic alterations in tumor tissue, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid as identified by next-generation sequencing, illustrating differences in mutational landscapes among the 3 sample types. CDK4 = cyclin-dependent kinase 4, MSH6 = MutS homolog 6, MYCL = MYC proto-oncogene, BHLH transcription factor like, RB1 = retinoblastoma 1, RICTOR = RPTOR independent companion of MTOR complex 2, TP53 = tumor protein P53.