A 47-year-old female patient, followed for 5 years for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with cutaneous involvement (recurrent malar rash), mucosal involvement (oral ulcers), and articular manifestations (inflammatory polyarthralgia affecting the small joints of the hands and wrists), without known renal or neurological involvement, he had no known family history of autoimmune diseases or thrombophilia. Surgically, she had undergone an appendectomy at the age of 30, with no other major procedures, presented with a progressive sensation of heaviness in the lower limbs evolving over 5 days , his condition worsened 3 days ago ,accompanied by sphincter disturbances, without back pain, radicular pain, autonomic dysfunction, or other supramedullary symptoms. and she was on hydroxychloroquine (200 mg/day) and prednisone (5 mg/day). Clinical examination revealed a conscious, afebrile patient, hemodynamically and respiratory stable, with flaccid paraparesis :muscle strength graded 1/5 in the lower limbs and 5/5 in the upper limbs, abolished deep tendon reflexes in the lower limbs but present in the upper limbs, indifferent plantar reflexes bilaterally, a sensory level at D4, intact cranial nerves, and no meningeal syndrome. Laboratory tests showed an elevated CRP of 20 mg/L (normal <5 mg/L), an increased ESR at 50 mm/h (normal <20 mm/h), leukopenia at 2,500/mm³ (normal 4,000-10,000/mm³), hemoglobin at 11.2 g/dL (normal 12-16 g/dL), platelets at 190,000/mm³ (normal 150,000-400,000/mm³), hypocomplementemia (C3: 0.6 g/L, normal 0.9-1.8 g/L; C4: 0.08 g/L, normal 0.1-0.4 g/L), 24-hour proteinuria at 0.2 g/24h (normal <0.15 g/24h), a clear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with normal protein levels (0.4 g/L, normal <0.45 g/L), normal glucose levels, no pleocytosis, and negative viral serologies (HBV, HCV, CMV, EBV, HIV, HSV). Blood cultures and urinalysis were sterile. Immunological testing revealed positive autoantibodies (ANA at 1/1280 with homogeneous fluorescence, positive anti-native DNA antibodies), while antiphospholipid and anti-aquaporin-4 antibodies were negative. Thoraco-abdominopelvic CT revealed moderate bilateral pleural effusion and pericardial effusion, confirmed by echocardiography, with sterile, acellular pleural fluid. MRI images were acquired using a 1.5T magnetic resonance imaging scanner with the following parameters: T2-weighted sequences (sagittal and axial) with a repetition time (TR) and an echo time (TE); T2 STIR sequences (sagittal) T1-weighted sequences (sagittal) with fat saturation, Gadolinium contrast was administered intravenously at a dose of 0.1 mmol/kg body weight, and postcontrast imaging was acquired with a TR of 500 ms and TE of 15 ms. It showed intramedullary hyperintensity on T2 (Fig. 1) and T2 STIR sequences (Fig. 2) continuous over multiple segments from the cervical spinal cord to the conus medullaris, associated with localized spinal cord swelling, without significant enhancement after gadolinium injection (Fig. 3).Fig. 1T2-weighted sequences in sagittal (A, B, and C) and axial (D) reconstructions of a spinal MRI showing intramedullary signal abnormalities with hyperintensity on T2, continuous over several segments of the cervical spinal cord up to the conus medullaris, with localized spinal cord enlargement in certain areas (red arrows).Fig 1:Fig. 2Sagittal T2 STIR-weighted sequences showing intramedullary signal abnormalities with hyperintensity on T2 STIR (red arrows).Fig 2:Fig. 3T1-weighted sequences in sagittal reconstruction with fat saturation before (A and B) and after Gadolinium injection (C and D), showing enlargement of the cervical spinal cord and conus medullaris without significant enhancement after injection.Fig 3: T2-weighted sequences in sagittal (A, B, and C) and axial (D) reconstructions of a spinal MRI showing intramedullary signal abnormalities with hyperintensity on T2, continuous over several segments of the cervical spinal cord up to the conus medullaris, with localized spinal cord enlargement in certain areas (red arrows). Sagittal T2 STIR-weighted sequences showing intramedullary signal abnormalities with hyperintensity on T2 STIR (red arrows). T1-weighted sequences in sagittal reconstruction with fat saturation before (A and B) and after Gadolinium injection (C and D), showing enlargement of the cervical spinal cord and conus medullaris without significant enhancement after injection. The patient was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone at a dose of 1 g per day for 3 consecutive days, aiming for a rapid anti-inflammatory effect. This was followed by oral prednisone at 1 mg/kg/day, ensuring a gradual control of inflammation and preventing disease relapse. In addition, the patient received intravenous cyclophosphamide at a dose of 0.5-0.7 g/m² every 4 weeks for a total duration of 6 months. This immunosuppressive therapy was administered to control disease activity and prevent further neurological deterioration. Simultaneously, the patient underwent intensive neurological rehabilitation, including a structured physical therapy program focusing on muscle strengthening, mobility exercises, and assisted ambulation training. The clinical evolution was marked by the progressive resolution of pleural and pericardial effusions. After 6 weeks, the patient showed partial improvement in muscle strength, and at 3 months, there was gradual functional recovery, allowing for assisted ambulation The patient’s family expressed their gratitude for the care and attention provided by the medical team throughout the treatment process. They appreciated the thorough explanations given at each stage of the treatment and the comprehensive approach that included both medical management and rehabilitation. The family felt reassured by the continuous support and close monitoring of the patient's progress, contributing significantly to their trust in the establishment's services