A 58-year-old male, with a height of 166 cm and a weight of 70 kg, presented with severe, exacerbating lumbosciatic pain radiating to the right leg, predominantly affecting the L4 and L5 dermatomes. His medical history was notable for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Gold IV, sarcoidosis with pulmonary fibrosis (ED 18: 38% of predicted lung capacity), and methotrexate (MTX) therapy. Additionally, the patient had significant comorbidities including tricuspid valve insufficiency grade II with a history of pulmonary arterial hypertension, for which the last cardiological evaluation in November 2023 indicated no need for intervention and an overall normal pump function. He had a history of pancreatitis in 2021 and a 50 pack-year history of nicotine abuse. The patient also had non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM II) and required supplemental oxygen (1–2 L/min), with a SpO2 of 98% under oxygen therapy. His physical capacity was reduced (<4 METs). Blood pressure readings were 97/85 mmHg. The most recent pulmonary function test in March 2024 showed an EVCex of 43%, FEV1 of 38%, and EEVIEVC of 88%. Physical examination revealed palpable tenderness over the lumbar vertebrae and paravertebral muscles, with positive Lasegue’s and Kernig signs indicating sciatic nerve involvement. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) conducted on 1 June 2024, revealed a cranial-translocated disc sequester at L4/5 on the right side as the source of the sciatic pain. The patient underwent a minimal invasive sequestrectomy at L4/5 under SPA. The procedure was meticulously conducted under strict sterile conditions. SPA was administered at the L2/3 vertebral level following local anesthesia with 1% Lidocaine. A single puncture technique via 25G pencil point needle was used, with free-dripping cerebrospinal fluid confirming proper placement. A total of 2.8 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine was administered, achieving a sensory blockade up to the TH10 level without paresthesia or circulatory symptoms. The patient self-positioned into the prone position after SPA was applied, received 2 L/min oxygen via mask, and no sedation was given. The surgical procedure was carried out through a 2 cm longitudinal mid line skin incision and a trans-tubular microscopic assisted nucleotomy and sequestrectomy. The intraoperative blood loss was estimated at ⁓15 ml. The interventional duration was 31 min without any complications. It was easy to communicate with the patient during the intervention and minimal patient movements did not affect the operation. Postoperatively, the patient was closely monitored in a high-dependency unit with continuous oxygen supplementation and pulmonary physiotherapy. Pain management was effectively achieved through spinal analgesia and oral analgesics. Remarkably, the patient experienced complete resolution of lumbosciatic pain and significant improvement in motor and sensory function in the lower limbs. Follow-up after 1 month demonstrated substantial recovery, with the patient regaining independence in daily activities.