The patient suffered from postoperative cerebrospinal fluid leakage followed by hemorrhagic cerebral infarction, unilateral limb sensorimotor dysfunction and language dysfunction, and was treated conservatively. Combined with cervical infection, the treatment was anti-inflammatory and lumbar puncture drainage. The infection of the patient was cured, and the symptoms related to hemorrhagic cerebral infarction were better than before. A 51-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital on August 6, 2013, for distending pain in the left side of her neck for 1 year, which had worsened 20 days before admission. Preoperative imaging revealed a tumor inside and outside the cervical spinal canal that penetrated the intervertebral foramen and extended to the adjacent paravertebral soft tissue. The lesion involved two intervertebral foramen. Fig. 1). Routine examinations before surgery, including electrocardiography, revealed no obvious abnormalities in coagulation function or biochemical series. The patient was admitted to hospital due to progressive aggravation of the condition, and a limited-time operation was planned. No clinical symptoms related to cerebral hemorrhage were found in the preoperative physical examination evaluation, so the preoperative head MRI examination was not completed. The study was approved by the ethics committee of Ningbo No.6 Hospital. The number: CHEC2009-066. Fig. 1Preoperative imaging examination: A-B preoperative cervical anterior and lateral X-ray films; C-G preoperative CT showed that space occupying in spinal canal and left anterior bone destruction could be seen at cervical 2 level; The sagittal plane of MRI before H-K showed that space occupying in spinal canal could be seen at cervical 2–3 level, and it was dumbbell-shaped in cross section; L Preoperative CTA showed that the left vertebral artery was obviously compressed by tumor Preoperative imaging examination: A-B preoperative cervical anterior and lateral X-ray films; C-G preoperative CT showed that space occupying in spinal canal and left anterior bone destruction could be seen at cervical 2 level; The sagittal plane of MRI before H-K showed that space occupying in spinal canal could be seen at cervical 2–3 level, and it was dumbbell-shaped in cross section; L Preoperative CTA showed that the left vertebral artery was obviously compressed by tumor C2 and C3 hemilaminectomy and partial lateral mass resection were performed using the posterior and left lateral approaches of the cervical spine. Removal of the tumors from inside and outside the spinal canal and internal fixation using C1 bilateral pedicle, C2 right pedicle, and C3 bilateral lateral mass screws were performed under general anesthesia in the prone position. The posterior arch, C2–C4 spinous process, lamina, and lateral mass of the atlas were routinely exposed through a posterior cervical midline incision. Based on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showing the involved area of the tumor, the lamina and lateral mass of the affected side of the C2 and C3 segments were removed, and the dural sac and nerve root of the affected side were fully exposed. During surgery, a dark red oval tumor with a diameter of ~ 1.5 cm was found in the left front of the spinal cord, with a complete capsule, adhesion of the arachnoid membrane and left C2 and C3 nerve roots, and poor mobility. The tumor was carefully peeled off using a 2.5× surgical magnifying glass, and double-click electrocoagulation was performed to stop bleeding. Attention was paid to protect the cervical spinal cord and nerve roots. The tumor was separated completely, and attention was paid to protect the vertebral artery and vein when separating the tumor at the medial wall and outlet of the intervertebral foramen. Because the tumor was completely resected and the dura mater defect was large and difficult to repair, one drainage tube was indwelled. The operation time was 4 h, the volume of blood lost was 2,000 ml, the volume of autologous blood transfused was 300 ml, the volume of allogeneic red blood cells transfused was 4.5 U, and the volume of plasma transfused was 540 ml. During surgery, blood pressure and heart rate was maintained at ~ 110/70 mmHg and 85 beats/min, respectively, and the rhythm was uniform. The patient developed severe headache and vomiting 12 h after surgery. Approximately 300 ml of light bloody fluid was drained from the neck using negative pressure. Blood pressure and heart rate at this time was 150/70 mmHg and 78 beats/min, respectively. Considering cerebrospinal fluid leakage and intracranial low pressure, mannitol (125 ml) was administered to relieve brain edema. Consequently, head computed tomography (CT) was urgently performed, which revealed a low-density focus in the right temporal lobe (Fig. 2A). The patient’s headache symptoms were relieved, and aspirin was administered to prevent cerebral infarction. Fig. 2The right temporal lobe-shaped low-density focus (A) on the first postoperative head CT; The second CT and MRI (B-D) showed hemorrhagic cerebral infarction in left basal ganglia The right temporal lobe-shaped low-density focus (A) on the first postoperative head CT; The second CT and MRI (B-D) showed hemorrhagic cerebral infarction in left basal ganglia On day 3 after the operation at 2:00 pm, the patient developed progressive right hemiplegia with aphasia and blurred consciousness. CT and MRI revealed hemorrhagic cerebral infarction in the left basal ganglia (Fig. 2B–D). The estimated hemorrhage volume based on CT was 6–7 ml, with no evidence of brain surgery. Aspirin was discontinued, and nutritional support was provided. Subsequently, nerve function improved. To promote recovery, symptomatic treatment and rehabilitation exercises were performed. On day 5 after the surgery, the patient’s conscious language function gradually recovered, limb function recovered generally, and right muscle strength was recorded at grade 3. Currently, the patient required assistance from family members to perform certain activities of daily living. From days 2 to 13 postsurgery, the patient experienced persistent fever, excluding the possibility of infection in the lung, urinary system, and other systems. The cerebrospinal fluid was turbid, and the initial pressure was 110/20 mmHg. Routine cerebrospinal fluid test revealed 105 × 106/L of nucleated cells, with 65% lymphocytes, 33% neutral cells, and 2% mononuclear giant cells. The cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed a glucose level of 4.13 mmol/L, lactate dehydrogenase level of 99 µ/L, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein level of 0.8 mg/L, chlorine level of 114 mmol/L, and cerebrospinal fluid protein level of 70.6 mg/dL. Meropenem, an antibiotic that easily passes through the blood–brain barrier, was administered on day 5 after the surgery for an internal infection. The patient continued to experience a higher body temperature (37.6 ℃–39.1 ℃). On day 13 after postsurgery, the patient was treated with continuous drainage of cerebrospinal fluid in the lumbar cistern combined with meropenem and vancomycin. On day 23 postsurgery, the patient’s body temperature recovered to normal levels, and their cerebrospinal fluid was tested consecutively thrice with all the results being negative. Consequently, the lumbar cistern drainage tube was removed. No clear bacteria were detected in this patient, which may be related to the use of antibiotics before and after surgery, which interfered with the results of blood culture and secretion culture. However, cerebrospinal fluid examination results showed that cerebrospinal fluid leakage combined with infection was more likely. Infection may occur in the cervical spine, but due to the large dural defect, ascending bacterial infection to the intracranial cannot be ruled out. Therefore, lumbocisternal drainage is recommended in conjunction with antibiotic treatment. Anterior and lateral X-ray films of cervical spine were reexamined and they showed that the posterior cervical internal fixation was in place (Fig. 3A–B). After the surgery, pathological examination confirmed a schwannoma (Fig. 3C). Cervical MRI showed that the tumor had been completely removed, but a large area of cerebrospinal fluid leakage remained (Fig. 3D–I). One year after the surgery, X-ray and MRI of the cervical spine were performed, and they revealed that the internal fixation was in place, tumor was absent, and cerebrospinal fluid was absorbed into the subcutaneous tissue (Fig. 4A–F). Head MRI revealed chronic intracranial hematoma in the left basal ganglia (Fig. 4G–H). The patient still complained of occasional dizziness and other sequela, and her right muscle strength recovered to grade 4–5. Fig. 3Postoperative imaging and pathological data: A-B: postoperative X-ray film shows posterior cervical internal fixation in place; C: Neurilemmoma indicated by pathology; D-I: After cervical spine surgery, MRI showed that the tumor had been completely removed, but a large area of cerebrospinal fluid leakage remained Postoperative imaging and pathological data: A-B: postoperative X-ray film shows posterior cervical internal fixation in place; C: Neurilemmoma indicated by pathology; D-I: After cervical spine surgery, MRI showed that the tumor had been completely removed, but a large area of cerebrospinal fluid leakage remained Fig. 4Imaging data of 1 year follow-up after operation: A-B: postoperative X-ray film shows posterior cervical internal fixation in place; C-F: One year after operation, cerebrospinal fluid leakage cavity was obviously absorbed and closed; G-H: Chronic intracranial hematoma in left basal ganglia Imaging data of 1 year follow-up after operation: A-B: postoperative X-ray film shows posterior cervical internal fixation in place; C-F: One year after operation, cerebrospinal fluid leakage cavity was obviously absorbed and closed; G-H: Chronic intracranial hematoma in left basal ganglia