A retrospective study was conducted from data of pediatric patients undergoing laparoscopic surgeries at a single center between July 2021 and April 2022 under TSSA. Attendants of all patients were explained the TSSA procedure, and informed consent was obtained. All attendants agreed to allow the use of their data for publication, provided anonymity is maintained. Demographic, clinical, TSSA technique detail, and postoperative data were extracted from hospital records. All the cases were conducted by a single anesthesiologist with sufficient experience in TSSA and pediatric anesthesia. As this is a retrospective case series with anonymized data and no patient identifiers, formal ethical clearance was not required. All patients were followed for a period of two months through telephone, and no postoperative neurological, cardiac, or respiratory complications were reported during the two-month follow-up period. The demographic and clinical characteristics of the participants are presented in Table 1. There were three male and two female patients between the ages of 6 and 13 years. One patient was a diagnosed case of sickle cell anemia, and one was suffering from an upper respiratory tract infection (URTI). URTI, upper respiratory tract infection During the preoperative evaluation, all patients and attendants were explained the pros and cons of the TSSA block. GA was avoided in view of the pandemic. An intravenous line of appropriate size was secured, and standard monitoring was attached and verified their function. None of them were given pre-block sedation, and all patients were given LA infiltration at the intended puncture site. Spinal puncture level was T10/12 or T11/12 interspace using a 27 G spinal needle in the lateral position. All patients were maintained on spontaneous respiration using Venturi masks with 2 L/min oxygen flow. All patients were given sedation in the form of dexmedetomidine and ketamine (dexket) injections. The detailed technique of the TSSA used in all cases is compiled in Table 2. Dexa, dexamethasone; Dexem, dexmedetomidine; Dexket, dexmedetomidine and ketamine; G, gauze; LA, local anesthetic; MMA, multimodal analgesia; T, thoracic; TSSA, thoracic segmental spinal anesthesia Perioperative hemodynamics are compiled in Table 3. Two patients presented with hypotension, which was easily treated with a fluid bolus and a small dose of phenylephrine. None of them developed paresthesia during needle insertion. One case was prolonged and suffered shoulder tip pain postoperatively. PONV, postoperative nausea and vomiting