A healthy, 37-year-old man who was a non-smoker presented to the Neurology Unit of ‘Bianchi-Melacrino-Morelli’ Hospital (Reggio Calabria, Italy) with a 2-week history of asthenia, gait difficulties, numbness of the lower limbs and urinary urgency. There was no history of recent vaccination, fever or systemic infections. Neurological examination revealed sensory ataxia, brisk tendon reflexes in all four limbs and hypoesthesia extending from the thoracic region (corresponding to the C5 sensory level) to the lower limbs. An urgent spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan (Fig. 1) showed a T2- and short-TI inversion recovery-hyperintense, continuous cord lesion from C2 to T1, without contrast enhancement (CE), consistent with longitudinally extensive myelitis (LETM). Additional multiple smaller dorsal cord hyperintensities showed CE, whereas brain and orbital MRI findings were normal. Blood tests revealed mild neutrophilic leukocytosis. A broad infectious and autoimmune work-up, including a COVID-19 test and antinuclear antibodies, was unremarkable. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis of a specimen from a lumbar puncture (LP) revealed elevated protein levels (100 mg/dl; normal value, <43 mg/dl), with normal leukocyte count, CSF/serum albumin ratio and glucose levels. The CSF-Film Array assay was performed by the Department of Pathology of ‘Bianchi-Melacrino-Morelli’ Hospital and was negative for common infectious agents. No intrathecal-restricted synthesis of IgG oligoclonal bands was detected in the CSF. Serum anti-MOG antibodies, tested by the Department of Pathology of ‘Bianchi-Melacrino-Morelli’ Hospital using a fixed cell-based assay, were positive at a titer of 1:100, whereas antibodies against AQP4 in both CSF and serum were absent. A diagnosis of MOGAD was made according to the International MOGAD Panel criteria (1), based on a core clinical demyelinating event (myelitis) with supporting MRI features of LETM, positive MOG-IgG antibodies and seronegative AQP4-IgG, after excluding alternative diagnoses. The patient underwent high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone therapy (1,000 mg per day for 5 days), followed by oral prednisone (50 mg daily). The patient fully recovered and was discharged after 10 days with a prescribed tapering of prednisone over 1 month. However, at 3 days post-discharge, the patient returned to the Emergency Department of ‘Bianchi-Melacrino-Morelli’ Hospital due to a focal to bilateral epileptic seizure, preceded by 2 days of continuous right frontotemporal headaches. Neurological examination revealed mild left hemiparesis and drowsiness, with a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of 4(7). An urgent brain computed tomography scan showed a right cortical parietal hypodense lesion. Brain MRI revealed a fluid-attenuated inversion recovery-hyperintense right frontoparietal lesion, and an MRI angiogram showed absence of flow in the right superficial cortical veins and superior sagittal sinus, confirming CVT (Fig. 2). Blood work-up for thrombophilia, including antinuclear antibodies, factor V Leiden and prothrombin mutation, and deficiencies in antithrombin, protein C and protein S, was unremarkable. Tests for COVID-19 and serum autoantibodies associated with antiphospholipid syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus and Behçet's disease were also negative. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria was excluded. The patient was treated with subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin (4,000 IU, subcutaneously, twice daily) for 10 days and lacosamide (200 mg per day for 3 months) to prevent seizure recurrence. The patient achieved a complete recovery within 30 days and was discharged with 50 mg/day prednisone, which was slowly tapered and discontinued after 3 months. The patient's clinical condition remained stable over the following year, with unchanged MRI results at the 6- and 12-month follow-ups.