A 40-year-old male presented with low back pain, bilateral L3 radiculopathy, and mild L3-level hypoesthesias. The pre-operative lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an intradural extramedullary, multinodular L3 mass, isointense on T1-weighted imaging, homogeneously hyperintense on T2-weighted imaging, and markedly enhancing with contrast. Gross total microsurgical resection was achieved through an L3 laminectomy. The histopathology revealed a plexiform schwannoma (World Health Organization Grade 1). The post-operative MRI confirmed complete tumor removal, and six months later, the patient remained asymptomatic. A 40-year-old male presented with low back pain and bilateral L3 radiculopathy/mild hypoesthesias. The pre-operative lumbar spine MR imaging (MRI) [Figure 1] demonstrated an intradural extramedullary, multinodular mass centered at the L3 level, isointense on T1-weighted imaging, heterogeneously hyperintense on T2-weighted imaging, and markedly enhancing with contrast. An L3 laminectomy allowed for microsurgical GTR of a multinodular intradural extramedullary mass that contained several fascicular afferent and efferent connections consistent with a plexiform rather than typical schwannoma (i.e., arising from a single parent fascicle). Interfascicular dissection allowed for identification/preservation of functioning rootlets and resulted in gross total en bloc excision without neurological sequelae [Figure 2]. The histopathology was consistent with a plexiform schwannoma (World Health Organization Grade 1); it was characterized by Antoni A–predominant spindle-cell nodules with Verocay bodies and diffuse S100/SOX10 immunoreactivity, with epithelial membrane antigen negative in tumor cells and highlighted by a perineurial rim [Figure 3]. The post-operative MRI [Figure 4] confirmed GTR without residual tumor, and the patient returned to work 4 weeks later. At 6 postoperative months, the patient remained asymptomatic. Pre-operative (a) sagittal (left) and (b) axial (right) T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine showing a well-defined, intradural extramedullary mass. Gross appearance of the tumor excised en bloc immediately after surgical removal. (a) Multinodular septated and capsulated tumor, densely cellular (Hematoxylin and Eosin H&E ×16); (b) Spindle cell tumor, with focal nuclear palisading (black arrows); no features of malignancy, such as cellular atypia, mitosis, or necrosis are observed; some foci of hemorrage are present (red arrows) (H&E ×40); (c) Diffuse and intense staining of tumor cells with S100 protein. Post-operative (a) sagittal (left) and (b) axial (right) T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine demonstrating complete removal of the tumor.