A 65-year-old male patient, with no significant medical history aside from a left tibial fracture 37 years ago, complicated by chronic neuropathy treated with pregabalin for the last 14 months and a past pulmonary tuberculosis cured in 2020, was admitted to the emergency department with altered consciousness evolving over the past 48 hours in a febrile context. The patient’s symptoms began approximately one week before admission, with the onset of a transient behavioral disorder characterized by psychomotor agitation, occurring in the context of unquantified fever. Due to the subsequent development of impaired consciousness, the patient was brought by his family to the emergency department. Upon admission, the patient was febrile (38.6°C) and unconscious, with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 11/15 [8]. Meningeal signs were present, including neck stiffness and positive Brudzinski and Kernig signs, without focal neurological deficits or seizure activity. Hemodynamically, the patient was normotensive (113/76 mmHg) but tachycardic (153 beats per minute) and polypneic (58 breaths per minute), with an oxygen saturation of 88% on room air. The remainder of the physical examination was unremarkable. Given this clinical presentation, an infectious meningoencephalitis was suspected. Laboratory investigations (Table 1) revealed marked leukocytosis (28.6 × 103/µL) with neutrophil predominance (91.7%), hyperglycemia (5.9 g/L), elevated C-reactive protein (320 mg/L), and procalcitonin (11.1 ng/mL). Hemostasis assessment and liver and renal function tests were within normal limits. A full infectious workup was initiated, including a lumbar puncture, blood cultures, a urine culture, which returned sterile the following day, and a chest radiography that was unremarkable. On the same day of admission, an empirical antibiotic therapy with intravenous ceftriaxone (3 g every 12 hours) was started, in combination with methylprednisolone (40 mg every six hours), and the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit for further management. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytobacteriological examination revealed a purulent appearance with 44,000 leukocytes/mm³, 97% of which were neutrophils, and numerous Gram-positive cocci on Gram stain (Figure 1). CSF biochemistry showed elevated protein levels (11.5 g/L) and hypoglycorrhachia (1.93 g/L), below two-thirds of the concurrent serum glucose. Due to the suggestive findings, a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (FilmArray® Meningitis/Encephalitis (ME) Panel, BioMérieux) was performed, which identified Streptococcus agalactiae in the CSF. A sample of the CSF was then stored at -20°C in case it was required for additional molecular biology testing. After 24 hours of incubation, the blood agar culture of the CSF yielded small, grayish, beta-hemolytic colonies of Gram-positive cocci (Figure 2) identified as Streptococcus agalactiae using the BD Phoenix™ M50 automated system. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing, interpreted according to CASFM/EUCAST (Comité De l'Antibiogramme de la Société Française de Microbiologie/European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing) 2024 guidelines [9], showed susceptibility to ceftriaxone and isolated resistance to tetracycline (Table 2), thus confirming the appropriateness of the initiated antibiotic regimen. The arrows show grayish beta-hemolytic colonies of Streptococcus agalactiae. MIC : Minimal inhibitory concentration Concurrently, both blood cultures collected on admission and incubated in the BD BACTEC™ system returned positive after three days of incubation. Identification via the FilmArray® Blood Culture Identification 2 (BCID2) panel (BioMérieux) confirmed the presence of Streptococcus agalactiae, with an antibiogram matching that of the strain isolated from the CSF. During hospitalization in the intensive care unit, a persistent hyperglycemia prompted the initiation of insulin therapy. HbA1c measurement revealed a value of 11.1%, consistent with a previously undiagnosed diabetes mellitus [10]. Concurrently, the patient showed improvement with resolution of fever, decrease in inflammatory markers, and gradual recovery of consciousness. On the sixth day of hospitalization, the patient regained full consciousness but presented with retrograde amnesia, was unable to remember recent events surrounding his illness, and reported low back pain. Neurological examination revealed a motor deficit in both lower limbs with loss of deep tendon reflexes, muscular hypotonia of both lower limbs, bowel and bladder dysfunction, a positive Babinski sign, no coordination disorders, and the absence of radiculopathy with a negative Lasègue’s sign. These findings led to the suspicion of spondylodiscitis. The patient was transferred the same day to the infectious diseases department for further etiological investigation. Upon admission to the department, the patient underwent a full assessment, including a transthoracic echocardiography that showed a normal heart function with no evidence of infectious endocarditis, routine laboratory investigations (Table 3), and HIV, Hepatitis B virus (HBV), and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) serologies. Viral serologies for HIV and HCV were negative, while serological markers for HBV indicated a resolved infection (negative HBsAg, and positive anti-HBs and total anti-HBc). Due to the strong clinical suspicion of spondylodiscitis and the patient’s history of tuberculosis, sputum and previously collected CSF were tested for Mycobacterium tuberculosis using the Xpert® MTB/RIF Ultra technology and showed negative results. The following day, lumbar MRI revealed infectious L3-L4-L5 spondylodiscitis with adjacent epidural and soft tissue collections (Figure 3). Surgical management was planned. However, the patient suddenly experienced chest pain, followed by severe bradycardia, resulting in cardiopulmonary arrest. Despite resuscitation efforts, the arrest was unrecoverable, and the patient died later that day.