A 50-year-old female presented with chronic neck pain for 1 week presented with the rapid onset of a progressive quadriparesis. The cervical magnetic resonance imaging revealed a posterior SSEH extending from C4 to T2, with maximal cord compression at C6–C7; the radiological differential diagnosis favored epidural hematoma versus tumor. She underwent an urgent decompressive laminectomy for evacuation of hematoma; pathology revealed no neoplasia or vascular malformation. Postoperatively, she recovered marked neurological motor function. A 50-year-old female presented with 3 weeks of neck pain and a rapidly progressive quadriparesis. Neurologically, she had motor weakness in the right upper (3/5) and left upper limbs (4/5), with preserved lower limb motor function. The sensory examination revealed diminished sensation in both upper extremities alone. She had hyperreflexia and bilaterally positive Hoffman’s signs. The cervical myelogram [Figure 1] and MRI [Figure 2] revealed a large posterior spinal epidural collection extending from C4 to T2, with maximal compression at the C6–C7 level; there was severe canal narrowing and a faint T2 hyperintensity at C5 consistent. The lesion exhibited mixed signal intensity on T1 and T2-weighted imaging and included internal septations and areas of dark T2 signal suggestive of hemosiderin deposition. It did not enhance with contrast. These findings were consistent with an epidural hematoma, although tumor was also considered [Table 1]. The patient underwent an urgent right-sided C5–T1 hemilaminectomy. Intraoperatively, a dark hemorrhagic mass was encountered and completely evacuated. The pathology revealed a clot alone, i.e., no tumor and no vascular malformation [Table 1]. Postoperatively, the patient remained hemodynamically stable and exhibited a good recovery with improvement in upper extremity motor function to (4/5) bilaterally along with retained normal lower extremity motor and sensory functions. Case findings and summary. Preoperative myelogram demonstrating a hyperintense, crescent-shaped lesion visible along the dorsal aspect of the cervical spinal canal, extending from the upper cervical levels downward. The spinal cord appears compressed anteriorly. Findings are consistent with a spontaneous idiopathic cervical epidural hematoma, without evidence of trauma or underlying vascular malformation. Preoperative sagittal and axial MRI images of the cervical spine showing a posterior epidural collection from C4 to T2 with cord compression at C6–C7. (a) Sagittal T2-weighted image demonstrating a well-defined hyperintense epidural collection located dorsally (white arrow), extending from approximately C4 to T1, causing anterior displacement and compression of the cervical spinal cord. (b) Axial T2-weighted image at the level of C6–C7 showing the epidural hematoma in the posterior aspect of the spinal canal (white arrow) with effacement of the dorsal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) space and indentation of the spinal cord. (c) Sagittal T1-weighted image showing the same lesion as isointense to mildly hyperintense relative to the spinal cord (white arrow), consistent with subacute blood products. (d) Axial T1-weighted image again confirming the presence of the posterior epidural mass with spinal cord compression (white arrow), without evidence of vertebral fracture or enhancement. Postoperative laboratories including complete blood count, coagulation profile, and renal and liver function tests were all within normal limits, and the von Willebrand disease panel and factor XIII assay were within normal range [Table 1].