We present the case of a 29-year-old female with a 1-year history of acute, constant low back pain, rated as 5/10 on the visual analog scale (VAS). The pain worsened with walking and improved partially with analgesics. Additionally, the patient reported a sensation of heaviness in the right lower limb, with progressive weakness, cold sensation, and paresthesias. Initially, she underwent physical therapy and rehabilitation, which led to complete symptom resolution within one month. However, six months later, symptoms recurred without an identifiable trigger, this time with bilateral lower limb involvement, eventually requiring the use of a walking stick for ambulation. A new course of analgesics and rehabilitation was initiated, but without significant clinical improvement. Neurological examination revealed decreased muscle strength in the left lower limb (4/5) and in the right lower limb (5/5) according to the Daniels scale. Hypoesthesia was noted in the left lower limb, with a sensory level at L3, but sphincter control remained intact. Preoperative MRI of the lumbosacral spine demonstrated an apparently extradural, extramedullary lesion that was isointense to cerebrospinal fluid on both T1- and T2-weighted sequences, with no enhancement after gadolinium administration. The lesion extended from T9 to L2, measuring 148 mm in craniocaudal length and 20 mm anteroposteriorly, and caused significant anterior displacement of the spinal cord (Figure 1). Bilateral foraminal extension was observed, more prominent on the left side (Figure 2). The lesion appears isointense to cerebrospinal fluid and causes anterior displacement of the spinal cord. The lesion is isointense to cerebrospinal fluid and compresses adjacent neural structures. The patient underwent posterior thoracolumbar decompression through a T11 laminectomy and adjacent T10-T12 hemilaminectomies, with microscopic cyst fenestration and creation of a rostrocaudal communication within the cystic cavity. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated post-surgical changes, with resection of the lesion and adequate decompression of the spinal cord (Figures 3, 4). Postsurgical changes are evident at the T10–T12 levels.