A 16-year-old male sought treatment at our hospital for persistent right side lower back pain, which exacerbated during activities. He was immediately hospitalized for treatment, and was released upon recovery after 11 days. The patient also reported pain in the right popliteal fossa, alongside no history of fever, numbness, spinal injury, weight loss, or night sweats. His gout history spanned >2 months, and, at admission, he complained of first metatarsophalangeal joint pain and swelling, which was irregularly treated. The patient had no positive familial gout history. Upon physical examination, we identified marked redness, swelling, and adiposity of the skin around the first metatarsophalangeal joint (body mass index = 31.8 kg/m2). The patient exhibited no other positive neurological symptoms. According to laboratory examination, the circulating uric acid content was 525 µmol/L, erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 36 mm, and C-reactive protein level was 4.21 mg/L. A complete blood count upon admission showed 11.21 × 109/L white blood cells and 0.86 neutrophil percentage. The liver function and urinalysis appeared normal. The main laboratory results are shown in Table 1. Laboratory characteristics at admission. Computed tomography revealed bilateral pedicle discontinuity at L5. Additionally, we observed insect erosion and destruction of the bilateral patellar bone in the adnexa of L5, along with the bilateral involvement of the lower articular processes at L4 and the bilateral articular processes at S1. We also identified soft tissue masses, and the lesions extended to the vertical spinal muscles on both sides, thereby causing secondary segmental spinal stenosis (Fig. 1). Computed tomography images of the lumbar spine. Note: images revealing partial lesions, round mass within the spinal canal at L5/S1 (indicated by the arrow in the sagittal tomogram [A]); insect erosion and destruction of the bilateral patellar bone in the adnexa of L5, as well as the bilateral involvement of the lower articular processes at L4 and the bilateral articular processes at S1, Corresponding segmental spinal stenosis (marked by an arrow in [B]). A lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination revealed abnormal signals on both sides of L5, slightly reduced signals on T1WI and T2WI, and slightly elevated lipid pressure sequences on T2; both signals were unclear boundaries, ranging from 3.4 cm × 3.0 cm × 3.8 cm to 2.8 cm × 1.8 cm × 4.7 cm, with discontinuous bilateral pedicle cortical bone in L5. Lesions were present in the bilateral lower articular process of the L4 cone, the upper bilateral articular process of the S1 vertebral body and the right spinous muscle, and the corresponding spinal cord appeared compressed. The L4/5 and L5/S1 intervertebral discs bulged peripherally, and the dural sac was compressed at the corresponding level, with the narrowing of the spinal canal at the corresponding level (Fig. 2). A lumbar spine MRI depicting abnormal signals at L5, slightly reduced signals on T1WI and T2WI, and slightly elevated lipid pressure sequences on T2 (both signals were unclear boundaries, and corresponded to spinal cord compression, indicated by an arrow). MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. Upon admission of patient, we conducted surgical intervention whereby we noticed significant destruction of the spinous process of L5, lamina and facet joints, as well as portion of the L4 lamina, alongside thickened ligamenta flavum and surrounding lesions. In particular, white powder was evident within the paraspinal muscles of L5/S1. In addition, bone destruction and white powdery lesions were present within the L5 pedicles as well as the upper and lower articular processes. The ligamentum flavum between the L4 and S1 was substantially thickened, and white powdery lesions were spread throughout the ligamentum. There was a 4 × 2 × 1 cm epidural mass within the spinal canal, the corresponding segment of the spinal canal appeared narrow, and the nerve root was obviously compressed. Consequently, we conducted nerve root canal decompression, and the corresponding segments of adherent nerve roots were released. The excised tissue (Fig. 3) underwent fixation in 10% formalin for pathological evaluation. Microscopic assessment identified gouty tophi, featuring an amorphous proteinaceous core and radial crystals, surrounded by fibroblasts, lymphocytes, and multinucleated giant cells, which was consistent with a gouty tophus diagnosis (Fig. 4). An image of the lumbar lesion depicting gray-red tissue totaling 9.3 cm × 7.1 cm × 2.5 cm in size. Microscopic specimen evaluation depicting gouty tophi, featuring an amorphous proteinaceous core and radial crystals, surrounded by fibroblasts, lymphocytes, and multinucleated giant cells, which was consistent with a gouty tophus diagnosis. Following surgical intervention, the patient experienced improved symptoms, and recovered completely without any complications. Post surgery, the patient experienced a gradual improvement in symptoms, and he recovered well without any complications. During follow-up, the patient’s serum uric acid level was 354 µmol/L. Lumbar MRI examination showed postoperative changes, with L5 anterior spondylolisthesis and L4/5, L5/S1 disc bulging (Fig. 5). During follow-up, lumbar MRI examination showed postoperative changes, with L5 anterior spondylolisthesis and L4/5, L5/S1 disc bulging. MRI = magnetic resonance imaging.