A 71-year-old man initially presented to the urology outpatient clinic of Hospital Félix Torrealva Gutiérrez, a public hospital affiliated with EsSalud in Ica, Peru, with a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of 7 ng/mL (reference range: <4 ng/mL) and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) that were improving with tamsulosin 0.4 mg, one tablet every 24 hours. Based on this laboratory result and a relevant physical examination, which revealed a 5x5 cm, fibroelastic, mobile prostate with well-defined borders and no nodules, the urologist recommended a transrectal prostate biopsy. As part of standard management, antibiotic prophylaxis with fluoroquinolones (ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours for 10 days) was prescribed, with instructions to begin treatment three days prior to the procedure. After 24 hours of the procedure, the patient went to the emergency department because of an intermittent, unquantified sensation of fever, with a temperature of 38.4°C found on physical examination. During this visit, an initial blood count was performed, which showed normocytic normochromic anemia and marked relative neutrophilia with severe lymphopenia and mild thrombocytopenia, hematological findings suggestive of an early inflammatory response, even in the absence of leukocytosis (Table 1). VCM, mean corpuscular volume; HCM, mean corpuscular hemoglobin; CHCM, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. This patient was hospitalized in the internal medicine service, where empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment with carbapenems (Imipenem 500 mg IV every 6 hours for six days) was initiated due to suspected severe infection associated with a urological procedure and the possibility of resistant gram-negative bacilli. However, carbapenems are considered last-line agents for severe infections caused by resistant gram-negative organisms, and their use may promote the emergence of antimicrobial resistance if not judiciously indicated. During hospitalization, the patient developed progressive lower back pain, so an abdominopelvic computed tomography (CT) scan was ordered, which revealed degenerative findings, such as marginal osteophytes and narrowing of the L4-L5 intervertebral space with sclerosis of the endplate (Figure 1). The green arrow indicates degenerative changes in the lumbar spine, characterized by deforming spondylosis and L4-L5 intervertebral osteochondrosis. CT, computed tomography. Due to the lack of clinical improvement, the patient was referred to Hospital IV Augusto Hernández Mendoza, a tertiary-care center, where a contrast-enhanced lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed. This revealed signs of spondylodiscitis at the L4-L5 level, including bone edema of adjacent vertebral bodies and left paravertebral inflammation (Figure 2), as well as a 10 cc abscess in the left psoas muscle (Figure 3). While awaiting definitive etiological studies, empirical intravenous antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin and metronidazole was restarted. The green arrows indicate signs of spondylodiscitis at the L4-L5 level, showing bone edema of the adjacent vertebral bodies and left paravertebral inflammatory involvement. T2 FRFSE, T2 fast recovery fast spin echo. The green arrow indicates a hyperintense collection consistent with an abscess in the left psoas muscle. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; T2 FRFSE, T2 fast recovery fast spin echo. Given the persistence of the clinical picture and the identification of an abscess in the left psoas, the patient was evaluated by the interventional radiology service, where a percutaneous drainage guided by tomography of the collection of the left psoas was performed with a 22G chiba needle; in addition, a tomography-guided biopsy of the intervertebral disc (L4-L5) and adjacent vertebral bodies was performed using a Tru-Cut needle with coaxial system (Figure 4), obtained samples for culture, and sent for reading by pathology. CT, computed tomography; 3D, three-dimensional. Microbiological analysis of both the intervertebral disc biopsy and the drained psoas abscess revealed the growth of E. coli. Gram staining was not performed; however, culture results showed no evidence of polymicrobial infection. In addition, the isolated germ showed resistance to fluoroquinolones and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, while remaining sensitive to beta-lactams and carbapenems (Table 2). Histopathological examination revealed fibroconnective and muscular tissue with areas of fat necrosis, hemorrhage, and a mild inflammatory infiltrate, without evidence of malignancy (Figure 5A, 5B). Culture from both the intervertebral disc biopsy and drained psoas abscess grew Escherichia coli, showing resistance to fluoroquinolones and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, while remaining sensitive to beta-lactams and carbapenems. (A) Low-power photomicrograph showing fibroconnective tissue with areas of fat necrosis and stromal hyalinization. (B) Higher magnification demonstrating mild inflammatory infiltrate composed of polymorphonuclear leukocytes and lymphocytes, without evidence of malignancy (hematoxylin and eosin stain). Finally, after clinical improvement, control of the focus of infection through percutaneous drainage, and microbiological identification of the causative agent, the antimicrobial treatment was adjusted. Considering the sensitivity of the isolated E. coli to beta-lactams, the patient's clinical stability, the absence of fever, adequate tolerance of oral medication, and the need to complete a prolonged course of treatment, the patient was discharged with oral amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (500/125 mg every 8 hours), with a planned total antibiotic treatment of eight weeks. In subsequent follow-up visits, the complete blood count showed normalization of parameters, consistent with the favorable clinical evaluation.