A 78-year-old female patient with a previous history of FBSS (surgery listed below) presented to the pain clinic with bilateral radiation of persistent and progressive lower back pain to the posterior thighs for over two years. At the clinic, she described her pain as extremely debilitating, with a visual analog scale (VAS) score of six or higher during activity. The pain severely limits her mobility and daily functioning; she reports being unable to stand upright or walk due to its intensity. Before her surgery, she noted that she received a one-time steroid spinal injection, which provided no relief of symptoms. In May 2022, the patient underwent a decompressive L4 lumbar laminectomy, left-sided transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion at L4-5, and posterior spinal instrumentation fusion. The surgery was done with an autogenous bone graft, and the plan at that time was to stabilize mechanical instability and spinal stenosis. The patient noted that although the surgery initially alleviated her symptoms, the symptoms recurred and were worse shortly afterward, consistent with FBSS. Conservative management for her FBSS with her primary care provider involved prolonged administration of tramadol 50 mg, taken twice daily as needed. She also tried various adjunct therapies such as antineuropathic medications and muscle relaxants, which did not help her. Her primary care doctor declined to continue her pain management, and pain management was consulted to assume long-term responsibility for her chronic pain disorder as of May 2024. Her pain remained predominantly unresponsive to pharmacologic management at the time of assessment, and she was considering interventional treatments to restore mobility and improve function. Advanced imaging was conducted to assess ongoing structural disease at the pain clinic. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine demonstrated multilevel severe degenerative changes (Figure 1). She was unable to tolerate the time needed for an accurate MRI due to her pain. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Demonstrating multilevel severe degenerative changes in the lumbar spine A follow-up full-body computed tomography (CT) of the spine demonstrated findings of kyphoscoliosis with severe convex left lumbar and convex right upper thoracic spine curvature (Figures 2, 3). Multilevel, moderate disc height loss with minimal osteophytes in the anterior segments was present. No posterior spurring or compression of the cord was observed. Significant levoconvex lumbar scoliosis was observed, which limits the evaluation of the spine. There is a grade 1 anterior subluxation of L3 on L4 and a grade 2 anterior subluxation of L4 on L5. At the T12-L1 level, there is marked disc space narrowing and endplate sclerosis without significant spinal stenosis. The L1-2 level appears unremarkable. At L2-3, there is significant disc space narrowing, vacuum phenomena, posterior and right lateral osteophyte formation, resulting in mild central stenosis and right foraminal narrowing. Laminectomies are noted at L3-4 with associated vacuum changes and significant facet arthrosis, leading to moderate central stenosis and notable posterior impression on the thecal sac, more pronounced on the right. At L4-5, laminectomies are again seen with a prosthetic disc in place and facet arthrosis present, though no significant central stenosis is observed. The L5-S1 level shows marked disc space narrowing and vacuum phenomena without evidence of stenosis. Additionally, there are no acute abnormalities in the visualized retroperitoneum or bowel, but a right-sided pelvic kidney is noted as an anatomical variant. CT: computed tomography CT: computed tomography Because of the severity of pain, structural changes in the spine, and failure to respond to medications and injections, a trial of SCS was discussed and fully explained to the patient and her husband. This included expectations, risks, benefits, device types, MRI compatibility, and the likelihood of improvement of function. An effective trial of SCS was performed on June 6, 2024. The patient experienced pain relief, with 70-80% pain reduction and full recovery of activities of daily living (ADLs) during the trial. Leads were removed in the clinic with ease without complication, and following her good response, arrangements were made for permanent implantation of the device. She underwent implantation of a Vanta™ nonrechargeable SCS on July 15, 2024, in the right flank with no perioperative complications. The patient was brought to the operating room, placed in the prone position, and prepped and draped using sterile technique. After local anesthetic infiltration, a midline incision was made from L1 to L2. Using fluoroscopic guidance, two 14-gauge Tuohy needles were used to access the epidural space at the T12-L1 interlaminar level via the loss-of-resistance technique. Two eight-contact SCS leads were advanced into the posterior epidural space with the tips positioned at the top of the T8 vertebral body. Proper placement was confirmed on anterior-to-posterior (AP) and lateral fluoroscopic views. All placed electrodes were verified to provide appropriate coverage of the patient's area of pain. Following lead placement, the patient was further sedated, and both leads were anchored with silk sutures. A right buttock pocket was created for the implantable pulse generator (IPG) using blunt dissection. The leads were tunneled to the IPG pocket and connected. Impedance testing confirmed that all contacts were functional. The IPG was placed into an antibiotic mesh (TYRYX envelope, Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA) and inserted into the pocket with the label facing out. Both incisions were irrigated, treated with vancomycin powder, and closed in a layered fashion. Final AP and lateral fluoroscopy imaging confirmed stable lead positioning (Figures 4, 5). The patient tolerated the procedure well without complications and was discharged home in stable condition. Postop instructions were provided, with follow-up planned with the device representative in seven days and the clinic in two weeks for wound check and pain management. At her two-week follow-up, she noted continued pain relief of approximately 70-80% for her back and thighs with full restoration of ADLs. She returned to her baseline functional level, including the ability to walk upright without assistance. A follow-up two-month appointment showed the patient continued to have similar pain relief as her two-week follow-up. AP: anterior-to-posterior This patient's SCS was selected for full-body MRI compatibility, and five programs (Table 1) were programmed with various amplitudes, pulse widths, and frequencies to optimize patient comfort and stimulation coverage. Program 5 includes two subprograms (5A and 5B) to allow for alternating stimulation strategies. Subprogram A delivers higher amplitude and pulse width at 100 Hz for deeper or broader field stimulation. Subprogram B provides a lower-amplitude, lower-frequency alternative designed to reduce stimulation fatigue or address varying pain patterns