A 50-year-old morbidly obese male (body mass index: 40.1 kg/m²) with a past medical history of chronic essential hypertension, atrial flutter, and type 2 diabetes mellitus presented to the emergency department in a postictal state following an unwitnessed seizure. He was found unresponsive by his roommate and was transported to the emergency department by emergency medical services. The patient experienced another seizure upon arrival and was admitted for further management. CT of the brain showed no acute cerebrovascular events, and electroencephalography (EEG) conducted on the day of admission did not demonstrate any epileptiform activity. Admission labs were significant for an elevated non-fasting blood glucose of 337 mg/dL. Neurological examination was non-focal following the patient’s postictal state, but the patient was unable to provide pertinent information regarding the event due to his clinical condition. He denied any history of seizure disorder or osteoporosis, and initial treatment included 2 mg of intravenous lorazepam and 1,000 mg of intravenous levetiracetam. The patient was discharged with levetiracetam 500 mg, aspirin 81 mg, and no imaging of the lumbar spine. Aspirin was prescribed due to his comorbidities of diabetes mellitus and hypertension, which resulted in a CHA₂DS₂-VASc score of 2, an indication for antithrombotic therapy [7]. Three days later, the patient was admitted back to the emergency department due to severe bilateral lower back pain. Sagittal CT imaging of the lumbar spine obtained during the second admission revealed acute to subacute compression injuries of L1, L5, and the superior endplate of L4 (Figure 1). Subsequent sagittal T2-weighted MRI of the lumbar spine demonstrated acute paraspinal soft-tissue edema and compression deformities at L1, L4, and L5, without evidence of spinal canal stenosis (Figure 2). Portable radiographs further showed increased radiodensity at these same levels, consistent with compression deformities (Figures 3, 4). Image captured using a smartphone camera due to limitations in accessing downloadable files. All identifiable information was removed. Image captured using a smartphone camera due to limitations in accessing downloadable imaging files. All identifiable information was removed. Images captured using a smartphone camera due to limitations in accessing downloadable files. All identifiable information was removed. Images captured using a smartphone camera due to limitations in accessing downloadable files. All identifiable information was removed. Upon neurosurgery consultation, cement augmentation via balloon kyphoplasty was performed on L1, L4, and L5. Balloon kyphoplasty was pursued due to its significant increase in pain reduction and disability improvement compared to a conservative approach [8]. A postoperative portable anteroposterior radiograph showed radiopaque kyphoplasty cement appropriately placed within the treated vertebral bodies, confirming successful augmentation (Figure 5), and was confirmed with lateral lumbar spine radiographs (Figures 6A, 6B). Post-kyphoplasty, the patient’s pain improved to near resolution with no new reported seizures. At the two-week outpatient follow-up, physical examination showed intact cranial nerves, full (5/5) strength in lower extremities, symmetric 2+ reflexes, steady gait, and no focal neurologic deficits. Image captured using a smartphone camera due to limitations in accessing downloadable imaging files. All identifiable information was removed. Image captured using a smartphone camera due to limitations in accessing downloadable imaging files. All identifiable information was removed.