We report a 51-year-old female patient with no underlying disease who presented with intermittent low back pain, evident after both being sedentary and prolonged activity. The patient was diagnosed with a pyogenic spinal infection at another hospital and treated with analgesic and cephalosporin anti-infective therapies. The patient then attended our hospital and was initially considered to have a gram-positive bacterial infection; tuberculosis infection could not be excluded. After 3 weeks of empiric anti-infective therapy with vancomycin and linezolid, the patient complained of no improvement in pain and the inflammatory markers had not declined significantly. A clear lumbar spine infection lesion was detected, with evident bone destruction; therefore, we performed surgery for lumbar lesion removal and internal fixation. Lesion specimens were subjected to pathological examination and high-throughput sequencing, which revealed G. vaginalis infection, and the patient received postoperative antibiotic therapy with lincomycin and metronidazole. After 12 weeks of consecutive anti-infective treatment, the pain symptoms of the patient improved. No signs of recurrence were detected at 16 months postoperative follow-up. A 51-year-old woman patient presented at the orthopedic department of a local hospital with intermittent low back pain for 5 months, which had been aggravated for 2 months. The patient denied fever, chills, night sweats, cough, or other symptoms. After lumbar computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination, spinal suppurative infection was considered. Tuberculosis could not be excluded, and pain relief and anti-infection were administered, but there was no obvious change in the condition of the patient. The patient had undergone cesarean section and hysterectomy 20 years previously. The patient subsequently attended our hospital for further treatment. Local tenderness and percussion pain in the lower lumbar region, with mild limitation of activity, were detected on physical examination, while there was no radiating pain in the lower limbs, and normal sensation and muscle strength in both lower limbs. Routine blood tests revealed: white blood cell count, 11.2 × 109/L (normal: 3.5–9.5 × 109/L), with 88% neutrophils (normal: 40–75%), 6% lymphocytes (normal: 20–50%), and 0.2% eosinophils (normal: 0.4–8%); hemoglobin, 109 g/L (normal: 115–150 g/L); erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), 22 mm/h (normal: 0–20 mm/h); and C-reactive protein (CRP), 116.98 mg/L (normal: 0–6.0 mg/L). Urinalysis suggested high leukocytes (3+, > 200/HP, normal 0–5/HP), but urine and blood cultures were negative, and tuberculosis-specific T-cell spot test results were also negative. Tumor marker assays revealed tumor-associated antigen 72–4 22.3 U/ml (normal < 6.9 U/ml) and neuron-specific enolase, 20.4 ng/ml (normal < 16.3 ng/ml). Moth-eaten bone destruction of the lumbar 4 and 5 vertebral bodies and the left pedicle were detected by CT, while MRI revealed abnormal signals from the lumbar 4 and 5 vertebral bodies and appendages, with surrounding soft-tissue edema and left lumbar vastus lateralis muscle involvement, suggesting infectious lesions and possible tuberculosis (Fig. 1). Fig. 1Preoperative imaging findings. a-c: Computed tomography scans showing moth-eaten bone destruction in the left vertebral bodies and pedicle of lumbar vertebrae 4 and 5 in the sagittal, coronal, and transverse planes, respectively; d-f: show sagittal T1-weighted, sagittal T2-weighted, and sagittal fat-suppressed T2-weighted sequences show low signal on T1-weighted imaging and high signal on enhanced T2-weighted in the lumbar vertebrae 4 and 5 and the appendages, with unclear boundaries and swelling of surrounding soft tissues Preoperative imaging findings. a-c: Computed tomography scans showing moth-eaten bone destruction in the left vertebral bodies and pedicle of lumbar vertebrae 4 and 5 in the sagittal, coronal, and transverse planes, respectively; d-f: show sagittal T1-weighted, sagittal T2-weighted, and sagittal fat-suppressed T2-weighted sequences show low signal on T1-weighted imaging and high signal on enhanced T2-weighted in the lumbar vertebrae 4 and 5 and the appendages, with unclear boundaries and swelling of surrounding soft tissues Imaging and blood test results were characteristic of infammatory changes and we initially considered the patient to have a septic infection of the lumbar spine; however, lumbar tuberculosis could not be excluded. Vancomycin was used for empiric antibiotic treatment, with a subsequent switch to linezolid anti-infection treatment for approximately 3 weeks, due to the patient developing pruritus during treatment with vancomycin; however, the patient’s low back pain symptoms and inflammation indicators did not improve significantly. Next, lumbar infection debridement and internal fixation surgery were performed. During the operation, destruction of lumbar 4 and 5 discs was observed, along with bone destruction of part of the vertebral body and pedicles on the left side; the lesion tissue appeared as gray-white granulation to the naked eye. Intraoperative lesion samples were sent for microbial culture, histopathologic testing, and metagenomics next generation sequencing (mNGS). Microbial culture results were negative and the postoperative histopathologic results were suggestive of inflammatory granulation tissue (Fig. 2). The results of mNGS were suggestive of G. vaginalis infection. Postoperatively, antibiotics were adjusted to lincomycin and metronidazole oral treatment for 12 weeks. Two months after surgery, the patient’s back pain was significantly alleviated, and ESR, CRP level, and blood cell count were almost normal. At the 5-month and 16-month follow-up, the patient had recovered completely, and imaging evidence showed that the lesion had disappeared, without any signs of recurrence (Figs. 3 and 4). Fig. 2Postoperative pathology and metagenomics next generation sequencing (mNGS) results. Pathology examination revealed inflammatory granulation tissue and mNGS results demonstrated Gardnerella vaginalis infection (a-b) Postoperative pathology and metagenomics next generation sequencing (mNGS) results. Pathology examination revealed inflammatory granulation tissue and mNGS results demonstrated Gardnerella vaginalis infection (a-b) Fig. 3Postoperative imaging findings. a-b: Lumbar spine computed tomography at 2 months postoperatively; c: Lumbar spine anteroposterior and lateral X-rays at 5 months postoperatively; d-f: Lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 5 months postoperatively Postoperative imaging findings. a-b: Lumbar spine computed tomography at 2 months postoperatively; c: Lumbar spine anteroposterior and lateral X-rays at 5 months postoperatively; d-f: Lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 5 months postoperatively Fig. 4Imaging findings at 16 months follow-up. a-b: Lumbar spine anteroposterior and lateral X-rays at 16 months postoperatively; c-e: Lumbar MRI at 16 months after surgery showed complete lesion resorption with no evidence of recurrence Imaging findings at 16 months follow-up. a-b: Lumbar spine anteroposterior and lateral X-rays at 16 months postoperatively; c-e: Lumbar MRI at 16 months after surgery showed complete lesion resorption with no evidence of recurrence