Case 1 An 81-year-old woman complained of low back pain, bilateral lower limb pain with numbness, dysuria, and intermittent claudication within 10 meters for the past year. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed moderate lumbar spinal stenosis at L2/3 (Schizas grade B) and severe stenosis at L3/4 and L4/5 (Schizas grade C/D, Figure 1A, 1B, 1C). The computed tomography (CT) image at the initial presentation revealed lumbar spondylosis, L4 anterior and L2 posterior spondylolisthesis, and an old L4 osteoporotic vertebral fracture with mild compression (Figure 1D, asterisk). The CT-Hounsfield unit values of the L2-L4 vertebral bodies were very low, at less than 60, indicating the presence of osteoporosis (possibility of severe osteoporosis, Figure 1D). Although a newly onset L3 vertebral fracture was identified just before the operation, the fracture type was a superior endplate injury (EPI) with minimal depression (Figure 1E, star). MRI and CT images of an 81-year-old woman (Case 1) showing (A, B) moderate (Schizas B at L2/3) and (A, C) severe canal stenosis (Schizas C/D at L3/4 and L4/5) with an old L4 vertebral fracture (D, asterisk) and degenerative spondylolisthesis, and (D) very low L2-L4 CT-Hounsfield unit values. A lateral lumbar X-ray (E) taken just before OLIF showing a newly onset L3 vertebral fracture (star). OLIF: oblique lumbar interbody fusion, CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal area Spinal fusion was performed using OLIF at L2-L5, combined with simultaneous laminectomy at L3/4 and L4/5, as well as percutaneous pedicle screw fixation. OLIF cages measuring 10x50x18 mm (6° lordotic CLYDESDALE PTC™ cage, Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) were inserted at each level. As the central stenosis at the L2/3 level was moderate and the L3 fracture was only a slight central depression of the superior endplate, an indirect decompression effect through restoring posterior disc height (PDH) was anticipated from using a wide, tall OLIF cage (Figure 2A, arrow), without performing additional DPD at this level. However, after starting to walk again following the operation, the patient experienced a deterioration in the numbness and motor weakness (manual muscle test (MMT): quadriceps 4-/4- and tibialis anterior 3-/4) in her lower limbs. A postoperative radiograph revealed advanced cage subsidence at L2/3 with a decrease in PDH (Marchi grade I, Figure 2B, arrow), and an MRI scan showed a decrease in CSA compared to the preoperative value (from 59.4 mm2 to 33.6 mm2, a 43% decrease, Figure 2C, large arrow; Figure 2D). One week later, an additional laminectomy was performed at the L2/3 level to decompress the dural sac (Figure 2E, large arrow; Figure 2F). Following the procedure, the patient's numbness and motor deficit returned to normal. A lateral lumbar X-ray (A) taken immediately after OLIF with pedicle screw fixation showing restoration of PDH at L2/3 (arrow), (B) subsequent advancement in cage subsidence with a decrease in PDH (Marchi grade I, arrow) after commencing walking, and postoperative MRI images showing (C) a narrow dural sac (large arrow) and (D) a 43% decrease in CSA. Following direct posterior decompression at L2/3 (large arrow in E), MRI images (E, F) showing an enlarged dural sac. OLIF: oblique lumbar interbody fusion, PSF: pedicle screw fixation, PDH: posterior disc height, CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal area Case 2 A 74-year-old man presented with severe pain and numbness in his left anterolateral thigh and leg (the areas innervated by the L4-L5 nerve roots), as well as low back pain and intermittent claudication within 100 meters. Radiological imaging of the lumbar spine revealed degenerative spondylosis and spondylolisthesis at L4. An MRI scan confirmed moderate to severe lumbar spinal stenosis at four disc levels: L2/3, L3/4, L4/5, and L5/S1 (Figure 3A). The CSA of the spinal canal at L4/5 was extremely narrow, measuring just 26.3 mm² (Schizas grade D, Figure 3B). Concomitant foraminal stenosis due to osteoarthritic changes, such as superior facet enlargement and osteophyte formation, was also evident at L4/5 (Figure 3C, 3D, asterisks) in CT images. MRI and CT images of a 74-year-old man (Case 2) showing (A, B) moderate to severe canal stenosis at four disc-levels (Schizas D at L4/5) with (C, D) L4 degenerative spondylolisthesis and osteophyte formation of L5 superior facet (asterisks). CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal area The patient underwent a one-stage operation involving L2-5 OLIF, L5/S posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF), and pedicle and alariliac screw fixation at L2-S2. OLIF cages measuring 10x45x18 mm (6° lordotic CLYDESDALE PTC™ cage) and 10x50x22 mm (12° lordotic CLYDESDALE PTC™ cage) were inserted at L2/3 and L3/4/5, respectively. As no endplate injury or subsequent cage subsidence was observed after OLIF procedures and the disc height was enlarged with increased facet gap at any level (Figure 4A, asterisk; Figure 4B, arrow), direct posterior decompression was not performed. However, he still complained of pain in the left anterolateral thigh and leg after the operation. A postoperative MRI scan revealed insufficient enlargement of the anteroposterior diameter (APD) of the dural sac and CSA (31 mm², an 18% increase, Figure 4C, large arrow; Figure 4D), and residual lateral recess and left foraminal stenosis due to a deformed superior facet at L4/5 (Figure 4E, large arrow). This was despite the enlargement of the posterior disc height and facet gap resulting from the insertion of a 10 mm-high cage (Figure 4B, 4E, arrows). One week later, an additional left L4/5 facetectomy was performed to decompress the L4 and L5 nerve roots. His left anterolateral thigh and leg pain and numbness then disappeared completely. CT images taken immediately after OLIF showing (A) enlarged posterior disc height (asterisk) and (B) increased facet gap (arrow) at L4/5. Postoperative MRI images showing a slight increase in (C) the anteroposterior diameter of the dural sac (large arrow) and (D) CSA (an 18% increase). A parasagittal CT scan after the operation showing (E) residual lateral recess and foraminal stenosis due to a deformed facet at L4/5 (large arrow), despite an increased facet gap (arrow). An axial MRI image taken after a left L4/5 facetectomy (F) showing complete decompression of the L4 and L5 nerve roots and the dural sac. OLIF: oblique lumbar interbody fusion, CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal area Case 3 An 80-year-old woman complained of severe pain and numbness in her left lateral thigh and leg, as well as muscle weakness (left drop foot) and difficulty in standing and walking (consistent with left L5 radiculopathy). CT images of her lower back revealed degenerative lumbar scoliosis and multiple spondylolisthesis (posterior at L2, anterior at L3 and L4, Figure 5A). An MRI scan revealed moderate lumbar spinal stenosis at L2/3 and L4/5 (Schizas grade B, Figure 5B) and severe stenosis at L3/4 (Schizas grades D, Figure 5B, 5C). The CT-Hounsfield unit values of the L2-L5 vertebral bodies were very low (56-81), indicating the presence of osteoporosis (possibility of severe osteoporosis, Figure 5A). Spinal fusion was performed using OLIF at L2-L5 in the first stage, followed by a laminectomy at L4/5 with percutaneous pedicle screw fixation between L2-L5 three days later. OLIF cages measuring 10x50x18 mm (6° lordotic CLYDESDALE PTC™ cage) were properly inserted, and sufficient posterior disc height restoration was achieved at each level without endplate injury (Figure 5D). There was no deterioration in the preoperative symptoms or neurological status. MRI and CT images of an 80-year-old woman (Case 3) showing (A, B, C) moderate to severe canal stenosis (Schizas B at L2/3 and L4/5 and Schizas D at L3/4), as well as degenerative spondylolisthesis at L3 and L4, and (B) very low CT-Hounsfield unit values at L2–L4. A lateral lumbar X-ray (D) taken immediately after OLIF showing significant restoration of the posterior disc height and spondylolysis without endplate injury at any level. OLIF: oblique lumbar interbody fusion, APD: anteroposterior diameter, CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal area Shortly before the second posterior operation, however, she fell due to delirium, resulting in a mild endplate injury and cage subsidence at three disc levels (Marchi grade I at L3/4, Figure 6A, arrow). As the level of the disc responsible for the chief complaint (L5 radiculopathy) was considered to be L4/5 and the EPI was mild with subsequent Marchi grade I cage subsidence, additional direct posterior decompression was not performed at L3/4 during the second-stage operation, despite the severe canal stenosis at L3/4 (Schizas grade D). Cage subsidence did not deteriorate just after pedicle screw fixation (Figure 6B, arrow). However, after commencing walking again following the posterior operation, she experienced a deterioration in numbness and motor weakness in her lower limbs, as well as dysuria, which suggested cauda equina syndrome. The postoperative radiograph revealed advanced cage subsidence at L3/4, progressing from Marchi grade I to grade II (Figure 6C, arrow), as well as no increase in PDH compared to the preoperative value (Figure 6C, asterisk). The MRI scan showed a decrease in the APD of the dural sac from 5 mm to 4 mm (Figure 6D) and a decrease in the CSA from 21.8 mm² to 20 mm² (a 10% decrease; Figure 6E). One week later, an additional laminectomy at L3/4 level was performed to decompress the spinal canal and foramina (Figure 6F). Following the procedure, her numbness and motor deficit improved, and she was able to walk with a T-cane. A lateral lumbar X-ray (A) taken shortly before the second posterior operation (following a fall) showing mild endplate injury and cage subsidence at L3/4 (Marchi grade I, arrow). A lateral lumbar fluoroscopic image during pedicle screw fixation (B) showing no deterioration of cage subsidence. After commencing walking, a lateral lumbar X-ray (C) showing advancement of the cage subsidence (Marchi grade II, arrow), with a decrease in PDH (asterisk) at L3/4. MRI images showing (D) a decrease in the anteroposterior diameter (APD) of the dural sac (from 5 mm to 4 mm) and (E) a 10% decrease in CSA. After performing an additional laminectomy at L3/4, an MRI image (F) showing sufficient enlargement of the dural sac. PSF: posterior screw fixation, PDH: posterior disc height, CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal canal area Table 1 provides the detailed demographic data for the three illustrative cases. DL: degenerative listhesis, VFx: vertebral fracture, DLS; degenerative lumbar scoliosis, OP: osteoporosis, LBP: low back pain, CES: cauda equina syndrome, IMC: Intermittent claudication, IDF; indirect decompression failure, OLIF: oblique lumbar interbody fusion, CSA: cross-sectional spinal canal area, AC/AP: anterior edge-center/anterior-posterior edge of the OLIF cage at sagittal plane, PDH: posterior disc height, DEXA: dual energy X-ray absorptiometry, %YAM: % young adult mean, CT-HU value: computed tomography-Hounsfield unit value, EPI: endplate injury, PDD: posterior direct decompression, ID: indirect decompression, Lx: laminectomy Two data sets of CSA, Schizas grade, and PDH showed preoperative (left) and postoperative (right) measurements, respectively.