This study adhered to the CARE guidelines. The patients’ personal information was anonymized. The patient and their family were notified of the submission of data and images for publication and provided written informed consent. The review board of the First Affiliated Hospital of Shandong First Medical University, Shandong Province, China approved this case for publication. A 64-year-old female with a university degree was hospitalized because of a year-long progression of walking difficulties, which had intensified over the past 6 months, suggesting a gradual disease process in the CNS. The patient was fully conscious, communicated effectively, exhibited no speech impairment, and could walk independently. She presented with a slightly wide-based gait and impaired mobility alongside a 10-year history of auditory impairment; tinnitus had gradually developed 3 years prior. She sought medical intervention at our facility because her progressively worsening unsteady gait prompted concern. Notably, she suffered a traumatic lumbar fracture in her mid-30s, underwent surgical intervention, and experienced 10 years of worsening auditory impairment along with 1 year of increasing difficulty in ambulation. The patient was admitted to our department for an additional diagnostic evaluation. Hyperactive tendon reflexes were present in all 4 limbs, resulting from inaccurate bilateral alternating movement, heel-knee-tibia, and finger-nose tests. Romberg’s sign was positive. Maintaining a straight line while walking is difficult. Broad-based gait was also observed. Hoffmann’s sign was positive, whereas Oppenheim’s, Gordon’s, Chaddock’s, and bilateral Babinski signs were negative. In addition, upper-limb postural tremors were observed. Laboratory analyses revealed normal results. The neurological assessment indicated an minimum mental state examination score of 26. Pure tone audiometry revealed profound sensorineural auditory impairment in the right ear, whereas the left ear exhibited normal hearing. Video head impulse testing yielded positive results for the left horizontal canal test without evidence of otolith involvement. Electromyography revealed damage to the left ulnar nerve at the elbow level and damage to the right median nerve wrist, consistent with mild carpal tunnel syndrome, along with decreased sensory nerve action potential amplitude in the right ulnar nerve. Electromyography ruled out polyneuropathy. Cervical and craniocerebral MRI showed extensive hemosiderin deposition, highlighting the involvement of the left temporal lobe, brainstem, and cervical pulp. Hemosiderin deposits were visible on standard T2-weighted MRI of the cervical spinal cord (Fig. 1A, B). Hemosiderin deposits are not easily visible on standard T2-weighted MRI, whereas SWI enhances the visibility of these linear hypointense signals across the left temporal lobe, bilateral insula, temporal cortex sulci, and the brainstem (Fig. 1C). CT angiography performed under craniocervical conditions showed no anomalies (Fig. 2A, B).The chest CT on July 17th before the patient’s admission and the current abdominal and pelvic CT showed no abnormalities in the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae (Figure S1, Supplemental Digital Content, https://links.lww.com/MD/P393). Magnetic resonance imaging shows a toroidal line of low T2 signal on the spinal cord margin on a T2-weighted image, involving the cervical spinal cord (A, B). Brain T2-weighted MRI does not clearly show hemosiderin deposition. Brain MRI using sensitivity weighted imaging (SWI) shows hemosiderin deposits in the bilateral insula, temporal cortex sulci walking area, and around the brain stem (arrows) (C). CT angiography performed under craniocervical conditions exhibited no anomalies. The patient refused all invasive procedures such as lumbar puncture, CT myelography or lumbar vascular digital subtraction angiography. A multidisciplinary team from neurology, otolaryngology, and rehabilitation therapy conservatively assessed her condition to enhance balance, gait, and upper limb function. Based on the above tests and examinations, we made a differential diagnosis (summarized in Table 1). The final diagnosis was classical SSCNS. With the patient’s family’s consent, a treatment regimen consisting of Ginkgo biloba extract, mecobalamin, and vitamin B1 was initiated. 6 months after discharge, the patient walked better than before the discharge, without adverse events. The patient’s clinical timeline was showed in Figure 3,which outlines key events and interventions in the patient’s care. Differential diagnosis and exclusion criteria. CNS = central nervous system, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging, SSCNS = superficial siderosis of the central nervous system, SWI = susceptibility-weighted imaging, V-HIT = Video head impulse testing. Clinical timeline of the patient.