An 11-year-old girl with a medical history of asthma, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and prediabetes presented to an outside ED with sudden-onset bilateral lower extremity (BLE) numbness, weakness, and pain. The patient reported falling from approximately six feet, landing on her feet, and then falling backward, hitting her head. At the time of injury, she denied loss of consciousness or back pain. Three days after the fall, her ambulation progressively worsened until she could no longer walk, prompting her initial ED visit. After a negative CT scan and X-ray, she was discharged but presented the following day to our ED and was subsequently admitted. Neurological assessment revealed normal mental status, no papilledema, and intact strength and deep tendon reflexes in the bilateral upper extremities (BUE). Motor strength in the right lower extremity (RLE) ranged from 2/5 (hip flexion) to 4/5 (ankle mobility), whereas the left lower extremity (LLE) was predominantly 0/5. Reflexes were 2+ in the BLE patellar and LLE Achilles, but 1+ in the RLE Achilles, with a positive Babinski sign bilaterally. Sensory examination was intact to light touch and vibration in all four extremities. Pain and temperature sensation were normal in the BUE but decreased in the BLE, with complete loss of sharp and temperature sensation below the thoracic vertebrae T11-T12. Finger-to-nose testing was intact with no tremor. The patient remained paraplegic on admission and for the first four days of hospitalization. The neurological differential diagnosis included acute myelitis, acute demyelinating process, and SCI. MRI of the brain and cervical (C) spine revealed no abnormalities. MRI of the thoracic (T) spine demonstrated symmetric, ventral-predominant cord signal abnormality from T8 to T12 (Figure 1, Figure 2). Imaging of the thoracic spine revealed marrow edema and enhancement of the left T9-T10 transverse process and surrounding tissue, consistent with an acute fracture (Figure 3). MRI of the lumbar (L) spine demonstrated a left-sided L2-L4 paraspinal muscle strain. The radiological differential diagnosis included SCI versus transverse myelitis. The red arrow demonstrates a left transverse process fracture, corroborated on CT of the thoracic spine (not shown). Cardiac evaluation and coagulation profile were normal, and other laboratory investigations were non-contributory (Table 1). ANA, antinuclear antibody; HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin; HDL, high-density lipoprotein; LDL, low-density lipoprotein; MOG, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody; TSH, thyroid-stimulating hormone Neurosurgery evaluated the patient, and, in the absence of compressive pathology or spinal instability, no surgical intervention was indicated. The patient subsequently underwent a fluoroscopy-guided LP, with opening and closing pressures of 54 and 32 cm H₂O, respectively. CSF analysis was normal, without evidence of inflammation (Table 1), and fundoscopy revealed no papilledema despite the markedly elevated OP. Given concerns for transverse myelitis, she was treated with IV methylprednisolone (MPS) 1,000 mg daily for five days. The thoracic cord signal abnormality and T9-T10 transverse process fracture prompted further imaging using thin axial slices via diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). Symmetric, ventral-predominant T8-T12 cord signal abnormality in an “Owl’s eye” configuration with restricted diffusion, consistent with SCI, was observed (Figure 4, Figure 5). Differential diagnoses included ASA infarction versus neuromyelitis optica, the latter rarely producing an Owl’s eye sign. DWI, diffusion-weighted imaging The red arrows demonstrate a hyperintense signal abnormality in the ventral spinal cord, representative of an Owl’s eye configuration. Over the course of the week, the patient gradually improved in BLE motor strength and sensory function. She was fitted with bilateral pressure-relief ankle-foot orthoses, allowing ambulation using a walker and gait belt. After an eight-day hospital stay, she was discharged to inpatient rehabilitation for one week, followed by twice-weekly outpatient rehabilitation. At follow-up with neurology at two and five months post-injury, she demonstrated progressive improvement, with a narrow-based, well-balanced gait. Weakness persisted but was significantly improved compared to hospitalization. She was advised to continue physical therapy and to return in four months, or sooner if neurological symptoms recurred.