The patient is a 63-year-old male with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and prior urgent open proximal descending thoracic aortic replacement with Dacron due to Stanford Type B aortic dissection in 2005 at an outside institution. After being lost to follow-up for many years, he was referred to our clinic after surveillance ultrasound revealed aneurysmal degeneration of the paravisceral aorta distal to his prior repair. This was confirmed on CT angiogram of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis with 3D reconstruction (Fig 1, A). Combined with the prior aortic repair and paravisceral aneurysmal degeneration, the patient’s overall anatomy represented a Crawford extent V thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA) (Fig 1, A).Fig 1(A) Three-dimensional (3D) aortic reconstruction revealing a Crawford extent V thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA). The aorta proximal to the aneurysmal degeneration and distal to the subclavian artery is Dacron tube graft from prior repair. (B)Large yellow arrows demonstrate the origin and course of the aberrant phrenic artery. Short arrows reveal the targeted lumbar arteries at L1 and L2. (A) Three-dimensional (3D) aortic reconstruction revealing a Crawford extent V thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA). The aorta proximal to the aneurysmal degeneration and distal to the subclavian artery is Dacron tube graft from prior repair. (B)Large yellow arrows demonstrate the origin and course of the aberrant phrenic artery. Short arrows reveal the targeted lumbar arteries at L1 and L2. The patient was considered high-risk for open repair due to his medical comorbidities and the redo nature of the procedure. The patient’s anatomy was amenable to a custom F/BEVAR, and he was enrolled in our investigational device exemption study to undergo endovascular TAAA repair. Preoperative imaging revealed multiple large lumbar arteries and an aberrant phrenic artery (Fig 1, B). Due to his anatomy, a simple staging thoracic endovascular aortic repair would not lead to cessation of flow in any lumbar/intercostal vessels, and thus we elected to proceed with preemptive lumbar and aberrant phrenic arterial embolization to promote spinal arterial collateralization and mitigate the risk of postoperative SCI and subsequent type II endoleak. General anesthesia was used, and the patient’s arms were placed in the surrender position to allow lateral imaging when necessary. After obtaining percutaneous access, the 3D overlay imaging was aligned based on the patient’s pelvis/spine in a two-dimensional to 3D registration process. A 55 cm 7F Baylis Passport (Baylis Medical Technology) steerable sheath along with a 5F Berenstein catheter and the Philips FORS wire were utilized for access to each branch vessel, and a Terumo ProGreat (Terumo Medical) was used for delivery of 0.018″ detachable coils. Our five target vessels were addressed beginning with the aberrant phrenic artery (Fig 2, A and B), with all vessel cannulations successfully performed using the FORS system, and confirmation using digital subtraction angiography (DSA) for each vessel before placement of coils. Importantly, the FORS and 3D overlay systems can display a virtual biplane view simultaneously to facilitate vessel cannulation and avoid deep oblique imaging that can greatly increase radiation dose. Following successful cannulation of each target vessel, the FORS wire was exchanged for an 0.018″ wire to allow exchange for the Terumo ProGreat microcatheter (Terumo Medical). The 0.018″ coils were then delivered to each target vessel. After coil embolization of the aberrant phrenic artery, we proceeded inferiorly to embolize bilateral L1 and L2 segmental arteries (Fig 2, C and D). Following successful embolization, the arteriotomy was closed with pre-deployed Perclose device (Abbott Cardiovascular), which provided hemostasis. The procedure was completed with total air Kerma of 503 mGy, dose area product (DAP) of 69.3 Gy-cm2, total fluoroscopy time of 5.9 minutes, total contrast dose of 3 mL, and total operative time of 78 minutes.Fig 2(A)Left panel: Direct ostial view of aberrant phrenic artery with successful cannulation utilizing Fiber Optic RealShape (FORS) system (Note slight error in FORS and three-dimensional [3D] overlay secondary to respiratory cycle in this view). Right panel: Orthogonal view of selective catheterization of aberrant phrenic artery utilizing FORS endovascular wire system (red arrow denotes ostial marker). (B) 3D overlay image with renal/visceral vessels, aberrant phrenic artery, and targeted lumbar arteries marked by circles at each vessel origin with confirmation of cannulation of aberrant phrenic artery using digital subtraction angiography (DSA). (C)Right panel: Ostial view demonstrating cannulation of L2 lumbar artery utilizing FORS endovascular wire system in multiple projections. Left panel: Orthogonal view of cannulation of L2 lumbar artery utilizing FORS system (red arrows mark ostial marker). (D) Confirmation of successful lumbar artery cannulation with DSA. (A)Left panel: Direct ostial view of aberrant phrenic artery with successful cannulation utilizing Fiber Optic RealShape (FORS) system (Note slight error in FORS and three-dimensional [3D] overlay secondary to respiratory cycle in this view). Right panel: Orthogonal view of selective catheterization of aberrant phrenic artery utilizing FORS endovascular wire system (red arrow denotes ostial marker). (B) 3D overlay image with renal/visceral vessels, aberrant phrenic artery, and targeted lumbar arteries marked by circles at each vessel origin with confirmation of cannulation of aberrant phrenic artery using digital subtraction angiography (DSA). (C)Right panel: Ostial view demonstrating cannulation of L2 lumbar artery utilizing FORS endovascular wire system in multiple projections. Left panel: Orthogonal view of cannulation of L2 lumbar artery utilizing FORS system (red arrows mark ostial marker). (D) Confirmation of successful lumbar artery cannulation with DSA. The patient tolerated the procedure very well and postoperatively was extubated in the operating room, noted to be neurologically intact, and taken to the post anesthesia care unit in stable condition. The patient was observed overnight and discharged home the following day.