A 56-year-old woman presented with lower limb weakness for 3 months without significant sensory deficits. The patient has a history of hyperthyroidism, but the condition has been cured, and the patient is not currently taking any long-term medications. Upon admission, the patient reported no abnormal sensations related to urination or defecation. We performed muscle strength testing, which revealed a grade V-muscle strength in both lower limbs. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine showed abnormal vascular shadows in the lumbar spinal canal. Initially misdiagnosed as extradural AVF, right iliac artery angiography via digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed an AVF at the L3–4 segment, supplied by nerve root artery from sacral external arteries and drained through chondromalacia veins. Due to the tortuous and delicate nature of the vessels at the lesion site, the microcatheter cannot reach the affected area. Therefore, we opted for surgical treatment. During surgery, the fistula in intradural dorsal was found to be supplied by upward and downward radicular arteries, draining through a soft meningeal vein. The drainage veins were clipped using an aneurysm clip and subsequently resected by electrocoagulation. The operation was successful, with significant improvement in lower limb weakness to class V muscle strength. Postoperative MRI at 2 weeks showed disappearance of abnormal vascular shadow. During subsequent telephone follow-ups, the patient did not report any significant abnormalities. The patient was a 56-year-old woman who presented to our clinic with lower limb weakness for 3 months. The patient did not have significant bowel, bladder, or sensory deficits. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and contrast-enhanced MRI of the lumbar spine (Figure 1A,1B) reveal abnormal vascular signals within the lumbar spinal canal. Initially, we misdiagnosed this case as an extradural AVF. Subsequent ultrasonographic right internal iliac arteriograms (Figure 1C,1D, with the arrow pointing to the location of the fistulae) revealed AVF in the lumbar spinal canal; the fistulae were located at the L3–4 level, supplied by radiculopathies emanating from the sacral external arteries, and drained through the chondromalacia veins. Ultrasonography of the right internal iliac artery allowed us to diagnose the intradural dorsal AVF. After a clear diagnosis, the patient was treated with surgical resection of the fistula. During the operation (Figure 2A,2B), we found that the fistula was located in the intradural dorsal and was mainly supplied by the upward radicular artery and partially by the downward small radicular artery, which was drained through a soft membranous vein. The operation was uneventful, and the patient’s lower limb weakness improved significantly thereafter. We measured the patient’s lower extremity muscle strength, and both limbs were graded as class V. An MRI performed 2 weeks postoperatively showed that the abnormal vascular shadow in the spinal canal had disappeared (Figure 3A,3B; Figure 4). Preoperative MRI of the spine. (A,B) Abnormal vascular shadows are seen in the lumbar spinal canal. Spinal angiography. (C,D) Preoperative spinal angiography shows intradural dorsal AVF (arrow) at the L3–L4 level. Blood is supplied by the radicular artery emanating from the lateral sacral artery and drained through the chondral vein. AVF, arteriovenous fistula; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. Intraoperative findings. (A) A dilated draining vein (white arrow) is seen on the intradural dorsal (CE) nerve root, and the CE nerve root shows the blood-supplying artery (black arrows) (the longer black arrow indicates the ascending root artery, while the shorter black arrow indicates the descending small root artery). (B) Intraoperative ICG imaging shows complete clamping of the draining vein. CE, cauda equina; ICG, indocyanine green. Postoperative MRI of the spine. No abnormal vascular shadows are visible on the spinal MRI. (A) MRI plain scan. (B) Gadolinium-enhanced MRI. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. Case progress timeline. DSA, digital subtraction angiography. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Helsinki Declaration and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.