A 20-year-old healthy female presented to the emergency room (ER) with a three-day history of myalgias, rigors, intermittent fevers, and lower back pain. The back pain was non-radiating and described as throbbing and burning in nature, worsening with movement and lying flat. There was no associated lower extremity numbness, weakness, or urinary or stool incontinence. A week prior, she had a three-day, self-limiting, profuse, watery diarrhea. On arrival, she was found to have urinary retention requiring catheterization. A urinalysis suggested infection, with cultures growing 50,000–100,000 colonies of pan-sensitive Escherichia coli. An MRI of her lumbar spine showed no abnormalities, and CT abdomen/pelvis with contrast showed no abnormalities. She was discharged on a 10-day course of cephalexin 500 mg four times daily for a urinary tract infection (UTI). Three days later, she returned to the ER with worsening back pain and intermittent fevers despite being on cephalexin. Additional investigations done at that time including lumbar puncture were negative. Thus, she was discharged home and instructed to continue her antibiotic course. Upon course completion, the patient returned to the ER due to worsening symptoms. She was found to be febrile (38.4 °C) and tachycardic (131 BPM) with low blood pressure (90/60 mmHg). Physical examination was significant for tenderness of the lumbar spine and left lower abdominal quadrant, with no rigidity or peritoneal signs. Cardiopulmonary and neurological assessment was otherwise normal. On further questioning, she owns two cats and rabbits but has no scratches or bites. Moreover, her travel history included river rafting in the northeast USA a few months prior and interacting with dairy cows at a community fair. The patient was admitted for further investigation and management. Initial labs revealed an unremarkable complete blood count and comprehensive metabolic panel. Inflammatory markers were elevated with a C-reactive protein (CRP) of 14.9 mg/dL and an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 53 mm/h. Blood cultures obtained prior to broad spectrum antibiotics, cefepime and vancomycin revealed no growth but repeat blood cultures obtained 24 h later after broad spectrum antibiotics, grew Bacteroides fragilis in one anaerobic bottle. A repeat CT of the thoracolumbar spine demonstrated T12 -L1 discitis/osteomyelitis and phlegmonous changes, with concern for an epidural abscess causing mild to moderate spinal stenosis (Fig. 1). MRI findings mirrored those seen on the thoracolumbar CT scan. Further investigations, including sexually transmitted infections (STI) screening (HIV, hepatitis, syphilis, and gonorrhea/chlamydia) was negative. A CT-guided T12/L1 lesion bone biopsy performed after being on broad spectrum antibiotics for about 12 h, grew Bacteroides fragilis with sensitivities as described in Table 1. Neurosurgery evaluated the patient and recommended no acute surgical intervention. The patient was initially started on broad-spectrum antibiotics with vancomycin and cefepime. Upon recovering Bacteroides fragilis from the T12/L1 biopsy, vancomycin was discontinued, cefepime was narrowed down to ceftriaxone, and metronidazole was added. A peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) line was placed, and the patient was discharged on a six-week course of intravenous ceftriaxone two grams twice a day and oral metronidazole 500 mg three times a day. Two weeks later, she was seen in clinic with a complaint of GI upset which was thought to be secondary to metronidazole; hence, the dose was decreased to 500 mg twice daily. Her CRP decreased from 14.9 to 2.3 mg/dL, with back pain improving. She was seen again in the clinic six weeks after discharge, and her back pain was resolved, with no fevers or chills.