A 44-year-old female with a short neck, progressive difficulty in walking, with gait instability was diagnosed and treated as a case of craniovertebral junction anomaly three years ago at a different center. MRI during the initial workup was suggestive of atlantoaxial subluxation with atlanto-occipital assimilation, platybasia, basilar invagination, and tonsillar herniation into the cervical spinal canal. She underwent occipito-C2 fixation with insertion of a 3.5 mm spacer on the left side, C1 lateral mass resection, and transoral odontoidectomy, along with fascia lata graft repair of the dura. An external lumbar drain was inserted temporarily for CSF diversion to prevent CSF leak from the dural repair site during post-op healing. The patient gradually developed low back pain over the following years, which worsened with sitting and forward bending and was relieved by lying supine. She also experienced bladder sphincter dysfunction, difficulty walking, and progressive paraparesis. Neurological examination showed motor weakness, worse in the left lower limb than the right, and reflexes in both upper and lower limbs were normal. MRI of the lumbosacral spine showed an intradural lesion involving the cauda equina below the conus, extending from the inferior endplate of the L1 vertebral body to the superior endplate of L5. The lesion appeared heterogeneously hyperintense on T2 and STIR, isointense on T1, and showed intense heterogeneous contrast enhancement on post-gadolinium T1-weighted images (Figure 1). Whole spine MRI screening ruled out any dissemination. Based on these MRI findings, differential diagnoses of benign schwannoma, cauda equina myxopapillary ependymoma, and astrocytoma were considered. The patient underwent L2 to L4 laminectomy. Upon opening the dura, a significantly thickened arachnoid layer was observed. All roots of the cauda equina were thickened and densely enveloped by the arachnoid layer (Figure 2). Arachnoid adhesiolysis was performed safely (Figure 3), which, surprisingly, revealed a retained proximal lumbar drain catheter that was carefully removed (Figure 4; Video 1). There was no evidence of any intradural or extradural tumor. Biopsy taken from the thickened arachnoid for histopathological examination showed fibrous arachnoid tissue with scant inflammatory cells and no evidence of any malignancy or infective pathology (Figure 5). The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged on oral medications. The patient showed gradual improvement in pain and lower limb power with physiotherapy and rehabilitation during regular follow-up for up to one year postoperatively.