A 30-year-old European woman was referred to the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department with neuropathic pain in the left groin radiating to the left thigh and associated subjective weakness for approximately four months. Despite a healthy and active lifestyle, having completed a marathon six months prior, she now struggled to walk, run, or cycle due to the pain which also persisted at night. The pain was not exercise-related and medications such as Amitriptyline and Tramadol provided minimal relief. She had no other neurological or systemic symptoms and no cardiovascular risk factors. On physical examination, deep palpation of the left iliac fossa elicited tenderness and palpation of the posterior superior iliac crest was painful. Hypoesthesia of the left thigh was noted during fine touch testing, although it did not correspond to a clearly defined dermatome. Further examination of the lumbar spine, left hip, knee, and abdominal muscles was normal, as did the neurological examination and assessment of peripheral arterial pulses. Previous investigations by the Orthopedic and Neurology Departments included an ultrasound of the groin and hip, X-rays of the hip and pelvis, MRI scans of the hip, complete spine, and brain, as well as EMG and SSEP studies of the lower limbs, all of which yielded normal results. Additional investigations including CT angiography of the lower limbs, extensive blood tests (including viral serology, auto-immune antibodies, protein electrophoresis, sedimentation rate, CRP, and CK levels), and a gynecological examination also showed no abnormalities. Given the broad differential diagnosis of radiating leg pain and the initial exclusion of (1) locomotor causes, including hip pathology or tendinopathy (gluteus, rectus femoris, psoas), (2) lumbosacral pathology, including mechanical (degenerative joint disease, facet syndrome, discopathy) or inflammatory (sacroiliitis, ankylosing spondylitis) conditions, and (3) neuropathic disorders, such as plexus disorders, radiculopathy, or peripheral neuropathy, the patient was admitted to the Radiology Department for further evaluation of suspected pelvic pathology. This included consideration of osteitis pubis, obturator hernia or visceral irritation due to intra-abdominal (gastrointestinal, urological, or gynecological) inflammation or infection (including a psoas abscess). A pelvic MRI requested by our department (Fig. 1) revealed perirectal adenopathy and focal rectal wall thickening at the rectosigmoid junction. No obturator hernia could be found (Fig. 2). The patient was immediately referred to Gastroenterology Department for a left-sided colonoscopy which revealed an inflammatory, granular appearance extending from 0 to 10 cm from the anal margin accompanied by mucus formation. Histopathological examination of three mucosal biopsies demonstrated colonic mucosa with basal lymphoplasmacytosis and a dense chronic inflammatory infiltrate with mild activity, findings consistent with inflammatory bowel disease. Upon further inquiry, the patient reported a long-standing history of altered bowel habits with occasional blood in the stool. An additional total colonoscopy confirmed proctitis (Mayo score 2) with histopathological analysis of multiple biopsies revealing normal ileal and colonic tissue, but clear evidence of chronic colitis with severe activity in all rectal biopsies.Fig. 1White arrows on axial T1 (fast spin echo) image showing adenopathies surrounding the rectum/rectosigmoid junction (A, B), on coronal PD fat-saturated image displaying edematous wall thickening of the rectum (C).Fig 1:Fig. 2Axial T1 (fast spin echo) image showing an intact pelvic floor and no herniation in the obturator foramen.Fig 2: White arrows on axial T1 (fast spin echo) image showing adenopathies surrounding the rectum/rectosigmoid junction (A, B), on coronal PD fat-saturated image displaying edematous wall thickening of the rectum (C). Axial T1 (fast spin echo) image showing an intact pelvic floor and no herniation in the obturator foramen. The patient was treated by the Gastroenterology Department with Mesalazine (5-aminosalicylic acid) suppositories 1 g/day for 14 days, which partially ameliorated her radiating leg pain. Oral Beclomethasone 5mg/day resulted in the complete disappearance of symptoms after ten days. Continuing this treatment for 14 days led to mucosal improvement, as seen in a follow-up colonoscopy. Oral Beclomethasone 5 mg/day was continued for another six weeks, alternating with Mesalazine suppositories 1 g/day or Beclomethasone suppositories 6 mg/day. A second follow-up colonoscopy after six weeks showed complete remission of UC with a normal endoscopic appearance and the patient remains symptom-free upon today.