A 46-year-old female patient with no comorbidities reported intense low back pain during the early postpartum period following her third spontaneous vaginal delivery in the absence of trauma. She had undergone orthopedic follow-up after lumbar discectomy one year and one month previously, which resulted in complete resolution of her preoperative low back pain and left-sided sciatica (Figures 1 and 2). Postoperatively, the patient completed 20 sessions of physical therapy and returned to her residence abroad, where she maintained a light walking routine without engaging in additional physical activities. At that time, she weighed approximately 7kg, which was above her ideal body weight. Approximately three months after the spinal surgery, she became pregnant for the third time. During pregnancy, the patient gained an additional 12kg in weight. The obstetric care and prenatal laboratory assessments were uneventful. The patient underwent spontaneous vaginal delivery without complications, with the total labor lasting approximately four hours. In the first postpartum week, she experienced severe right-sided lumbosacral pain, which was progressive in intensity, without any history of falls, trauma, or specific mechanical triggers. The pain persisted for weeks, and the patient was unresponsive to analgesics and conservative measures. At eight weeks postpartum, an orthopedic evaluation was performed because of the persistent symptoms. Physical examination revealed significant right-sided paravertebral and sacrococcygeal muscle spasms with tenderness on deep palpation in the lower lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal regions. The patient's gait was antalgic with a mild right-sided limp and worsening pain during an ipsilateral single-leg stance. Discrete compensatory antalgic scoliosis was also observed. The lumbar spine range of motion was partially limited, and specific provocative maneuvers, including the Lasègue, Gaenslen, and Patrick-Fabere tests, were negative. No sensory or motor deficits or signs of radiculopathy or myelopathy were observed. Plain radiographs of the lumbopelvic region (Figure 3) did not show clear evidence of fracture or instability. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a right sacral fracture (Figure 4). Computed tomography was considered, but not performed, as the MRI findings were deemed sufficient for diagnosis and management. Conservative treatment, including rest and physiotherapy, was initiated, leading to gradual improvement in pain and functional limitations. The clinical picture was consistent with an atraumatic sacral insufficiency fracture, likely associated with postpartum biomechanical stress and prior spinal surgery, despite the absence of classical risk factors, such as osteoporosis or corticosteroid use. This case study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein (CAAE: 85432024.9.0000.0071; # 7.312.165), and written informed consent was obtained from the patient.