A 62-year-old female presented with low back pain and radiation to anteromedial aspect of right thigh and anterior aspect of right calf. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of lumbar spine showed a gas-containing pseudocyst compressing in L4 exiting nerve root right extraforaminal area at L4–5 level. L4 exiting nerve root blocking was performed to confirm the responsible level. Then we performed BESS through a paraspinal approach to remove the gas-containing pseudocyst and release L4 exiting nerve root. Postoperatively, the patient achieved a good outcome and the pain was relieved. A 62-year-old female presented with low back pain and radiation to anteromedial aspect of right thigh and anterior aspect of right calf. The VAS score was 6 and the pain had persisted for 3 months. Physical examination revealed a positive straight leg raising (SLR) sign and lasegue test on the right side. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) of lumbar spine showed a right extraforaminal GCP in L4–5 level, which compressing L4 exiting nerve root (Figure 1). Right extraforaminal GCP of L4–5 was shown in MRI and CT. (A) MRI axial views of L4–5; (B) MRI sagittal view of L4–5; (C) CT axial views of L4–5; (D) CT sagittal view of L4–5. Red arrow indicated the extraforaminal GCP. Before BESS, we performed L4 exiting nerve root blocking in the extraforaminal area. The patient reported obvious pain relief after this blocking, which indicated that the responsible level was L4/5, and the target was the right extraforaminal GCP in L4–5 level. We performed BESS through a paraspinal approach. The patient was placed in prone position on a radiolucent table and under general anesthesia. After the target level was confirmed under fluoroscopic guidance, the skin entry point was 1.5 cm above and 1.5 cm below the inferior margin of L4 pedicle, and 2 cm lateral to external margin of L4 pedicle (Figure 2). Two portals (walking portal and viewing portal) were created according to the skin entry point. Two transverse skin incisions (red lines) made on the fluoroscopic AP (A) and lateral (B) views. line a: inferior margin of L4 pedicle; line b: external margin of L4 pedicle; line c: parallel line of b; Red line: skin incision. Serial dilators were used to dissect the back muscle and acquire operative space. The trocar of the scope was introduced into the viewing portal and a round, smooth periosteal elevator was inserted into the working portal. After triangulation occurs between scope and the periosteal elevator, minor bleeding was controlled and remnant soft tissues were removed by radiofrequency probe and shaver, to expose L5 superior articular process, L4 inferior articular process, L4 pedicle isthmus and the base of L4 transverse. Then, part of L4 transverse and pedicle isthmus, the tip of L5 superior articular process and the exterior part of L4 inferior articular process were removed with a 3 mm drill or arthroscopic burr and Kerrison punch (Figure 3). After that, the ligament flavum in foramen was exposed and flavectomy was performed. Maneuvering of the scope, extraforaminal GCP, exiting nerve root and foramen would be directly visual­ized (Figure 3). Through the working portal, pituitary forceps were used to remove the extraforaminal GCP, and the L4 exiting nerve root was successfully decompressed (Figure 3). The successful removal of extraforaminal GCP was confirmed on postoperative MRI and CT (Figure 4). A bone tunnel could be seen on a CT scan (Figure 4). The patient achieved a good outcome, VAS score improved to 3 on the first postoperative day, and improved to 1 on 7 days after operation. Endoscopic image during the BESS procedure. (A) the extraforaminal area was exposed; (B) extraforaminal GCP was exposed and removed; (C,D) L4 exiting nerve root were exposed and released. Black dotting circle: the extraforaminal GCP. The extraforaminal area was shown in postoperative MRI and CT. (A) MRI axial views of L4–5; (B) MRI sagittal view of L4–5; (C) CT axial views of L4–5; (D) CT sagittal view of L4–5. Red arrow indicated the L4 exiting nerve root.