A 19-year-old man was admitted to the emergency room four days after a stab wound in his lumbosacral region, presenting with colorless fluid leakage from the wound. Four days earlier, he had a penetrating trauma in his lumbosacral region from behind with a stab wound, which had been sutured without any complication at a primary local hospital. In the first two days after the injury, he did not notice any leakage; on the third day after bandage removal, he noticed a fluid leakage from his suture site and approached the same local hospital, which was referred to our hospital. He also complained of vertigo upon standing and nausea since two days ago. Any other symptoms, were not detected. No prior significant medical history was reported. The skin wound was 3 cm at the midline of lower lumbar region. The patient was stable and showed no infection, or inflammation around the wound. The cranial and peripheral nerve examination was normal, and upper and lower limbs had full force without any local neurological deficit. The patient was alert and without fever; Kernig's and Brudzinski's signs were negative. A lumbosacral Computed tomography (CT) scan without contrast and Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested, and empiric antibiotic therapy was started with a complete bed rest order. The initial imaging showed a localized dural tear with evidence of CSF leakage through a fistula from epidural space up to subcutaneous at the L4-L5 level (Fig. 1).Fig. 1Axial CT scan of the lower lumbar region, white arrows show penetrating trauma at interspinous L4-L5 space, and the fistula tract extends from subcutaneous up to epidural space of spinal canal at L4-L5 level. Blue arrows show nerve roots clumping. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)Fig. 1 Axial CT scan of the lower lumbar region, white arrows show penetrating trauma at interspinous L4-L5 space, and the fistula tract extends from subcutaneous up to epidural space of spinal canal at L4-L5 level. Blue arrows show nerve roots clumping. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) A bone defect was observed in the right side lamina of the fourth lumbar spine. Also, the MRI revealed abnormal thickening of the epidural space with high T1 and T2 spinal intensity at the lower lumbar level and distortion and clumping of nerve roots. According to Spina bifida occulta at the sacral level, the finding suggested epidural lipomatosis (Fig. 2).Fig. 2Axial T2-weighted lumbar MRI image, white arrow show distortion and clumping of nerve roots at the level of injury, according to spinal bifida occulta in lumbosacral levels. Black arrow show CSF effusion.Fig. 2 Axial T2-weighted lumbar MRI image, white arrow show distortion and clumping of nerve roots at the level of injury, according to spinal bifida occulta in lumbosacral levels. Black arrow show CSF effusion. On the second day of admission, surgery was indicated for the patient, including a primary closure with partial laminectomy, dural repair and augmentation by fat and muscle flap, and a lumbar drain insertion at the subarachnoid space for five days. The patient responded well to the medical management, which included a Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitor (Acetazolamide), a wide-spectrum antibiotic therapy, and Trendelenburg positioning. Two days after surgery, a Lumbar Puncture was performed. The results showed CSF glucose (71 mg/dl) and protein (78.4 mg/dl); WBC was not seen. The patient was discharged from the hospital ten days after surgery. A follow-up examination a month later showed persistence of symptom resolution and a well-healed surgical site. Due to the complete resolution of the symptoms and signs and the patient's financial limitations, no further imaging was ordered. The patient is now following a routine checkup plan every three months, ensuring ongoing care and monitoring.