A 2-year-old intact male Boxer dog was examined because of a 2-week history of mild, progressive right pelvic limb lameness. Neurological examination showed mild paraparesis with marked right-sided lateralization. Paw placement was reduced in the left pelvic limb and nearly absent in the right pelvic limb. Spinal reflex testing showed reduced withdrawal and patellar reflexes in the right pelvic limb. Mild spinal hyperesthesia was elicited on palpation of the mid-lumbar area. The neuroanatomical localization was consistent with a right-sided lesion involving the L4-S1 spinal cord segments and associated nerve roots. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI; Canon Vantage Elan, 1.5 Tesla) was carried out under general anesthesia. At the level of the L3 vertebral body, an ovoid, well-demarcated mass, measuring approximately 2.1 × 1.3 cm, occupied nearly the entire cross-sectional diameter of the spinal cord leaving only a thin peripheral rim of residual parenchyma. The mass was iso- to hyperintense on T2-weighted and STIR images, isointense on T1-weighted images, and exhibited moderate heterogeneous enhancement on post-contrast T1-weighted sequences (Figures 1–4). A cyst-like, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), isointense component was present at the caudal pole of the lesion. No focal dilation of the subarachnoid space (“golf tee sign”) was observed at the cranial and caudal margins. Instead, there was circumferential attenuation of the hyperintense CSF and epidural fat signal on T2-weighted images. The spinal cord cranial, and to a lesser extent caudal to the lesion demonstrated enlargement and diffuse T2-weighted and STIR hyperintensity. T2W sagittal image and STIR dorsal image showing the T2W iso- to hyperintense lesion with the cyst-like formation in the caudal aspect and the diffuse hyperintensity of the spinal cord parenchyma cranial and caudal to the lesion. Abbreviations: STIR = short τ inversion recovery; T2W = T2 weighted. T2W sagittal image and STIR dorsal image showing the T2W iso- to hyperintense lesion with the cyst-like formation in the caudal aspect and the diffuse hyperintensity of the spinal cord parenchyma cranial and caudal to the lesion. Abbreviations: STIR = short τ inversion recovery; T2W = T2 weighted. T1W pre- and postcontrast transverse images at the level of L3 showing the extent of the mass lesion with the remaining rim of normal spinal cord tissue and moderate heterogenous contrast enhancement of the mass lesion. Abbreviation: T1W = T1 weighted. T1W pre- and postcontrast transverse images at the level of L3 showing the extent of the mass lesion with the remaining rim of normal spinal cord tissue and moderate heterogenous contrast enhancement of the mass lesion. Abbreviation: T1W = T1 weighted. The exact location of the lesion remained inconclusive, as it could represent either a purely intramedullary or an intradural-extramedullary mass with secondary intramedullary invasion. An additional finding, at the level of L7/S1, was a mild intervertebral disc protrusion and a mild hypertrophy of the ligamentum flavum. The cauda equina nerve roots were mildly compressed, and both intervertebral foramina were slightly narrowed. Decompressive surgery was elected with the aim of surgical debulking and tissue sampling to achieve a histopathological diagnosis. A right-sided L2-L4 hemilaminectomy followed by a durotomy was performed 7 days after diagnosis. Intraoperatively, the mass was primarily intradural, with apparent extramedullary extension and marked intramedullary infiltration. The mass was excised in small fragments to preserve as much healthy-appearing spinal cord tissue as possible. The abnormal tissue was heterogeneous, consisting of both soft, likely malacic areas, and firmer regions. After resection, consistent with the preoperative MRI observations, the spinal cord appeared severely deformed with a pronounced indentation and only a thin rim of residual spinal cord tissue visible. Postoperatively, the dog was paraplegic with absent pain perception in the left pelvic limb and preserved pain perception in the right pelvic limb. Three days after surgery, pain perception was absent in both pelvic limbs. Further clinical deterioration occurred, including an ascending cutaneous trunci reflex cut-off, areflexia of both pelvic limbs, inability to maintain sternal recumbency and hyperthermia (39.5°C). Descending and ascending myelomalacia was suspected, and the dog was euthanized. The owners declined full postmortem examination, and only the biopsy specimen was submitted for histopathological evaluation. Four biopsy samples from the spinal cord were evaluated, ranging from 0.5 to 0.3 cm in diameter. The tissues were of gray to brown color, and had a soft, almost gelatinous to spinal cord-like consistency. The fragments were fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin, routinely processed for histology, sectioned at 5 μm, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Histologically, no normal spinal cord architecture was visible, but a poorly organized cellular proliferation composed of neuronal and glial elements, embedded in an edematous neuropil was noted in its place (Figure 5A-D). The neuronal component consisted of polygonal cells with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, absent to scant Nissl substance, and nuclei containing prominent nucleoli and vesicular chromatin (Figure 5B and C). Scattered immature-appearing cells showed eosinophilic cytoplasm and heterochromatic nuclei (Figure 5C and D). Some neurons appeared dysmorphic and displayed Nissl substance displacement toward the periphery of the cell or vacuolization of the cytoplasm (Figure 5D). Occasional binucleated cells were observed (Figure 5C). Anisocytosis and anisokaryosis were moderate. Mitoses were absent. Degenerative neuronal changes, including swelling, necrosis, chromatin margination, and formation of axonal spheroids, were observed (Figure 5A and B). The glial component comprised hyperplastic astrocyte-like cells with gemnistocytic to fibrillary cytoplasm or bare nuclei (Figure 5C). Mild perivascular inflammatory infiltrates, composed of lymphocytes, plasma cells, and occasional neutrophils, were present within the lesion and in the arachnoid membranes. In one section, the arachnoid membrane appeared hyperplastic with multifocal mineralization. Immunohistochemical labeling confirmed the biphasic neuronal and glial nature of the lesion. The majority of neoplastic nuclei were positive for NeuN (Figure 6A), confirming neuronal differentiation. Neurofilament and synaptophysin immunostaining highlighted numerous axons and synaptic structures, respectively, producing a fine granular signal within the neuropil-like background and surrounding neuronal bodies (Figure 6B and C). Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunostaining showed strong labeling of glial processes, which were multifocally and confluently arranged in a band-like pattern (Figure 6D). Debulked spinal cord mass tissue, stained with H&E. (A) The normal spinal cord architecture is replaced by moderately densely packed cells lacking an organized architecture and lying in neuropil-like tissue supported by branching vessels. Multiple spheroids are observed (white arrows). Magnification: ×100. (B) The mass is composed of large cells resembling neurons grouped in clusters within a neuropil-like background that contains also glial cells. The white arrow indicates an axonal spheroid. Magnification: ×200. Inset: Neuronal nuclear chromatin is vesicular with prominent nucleoli (magnification ×800). (C) In other areas, dysmorphic neurons (arrows), some of them showing eosinophilic cytoplasm with central chromatolysis, are surrounded by a glial component that is characterized by hypertrophic astrocyte-like cells with epithelioid to fibrillar cytoplasm and pale ovoid nuclei. Magnification: ×400. Inset: Binucleated neurons are occasionally seen. Magnification: ×800. (D) Central chromatolysis (white arrowhead) and intracytoplasmic vacuolization (black arrow heads) of dysmorphic neurons, which are surrounded by glial cells. Magnification: ×400. Inset: Large neuron with central chromatolysis of Nissl substance and small neuron with intranuclear cytoplasmic invagination. Magnification: ×800. Abbreviation: H&E = hematoxylin and eosin. Immunohistochemical stainings of the spinal ganglioglioma. (A) Cluster of tumoral neuronal cells shows intranuclear expression of NeuN (red). (B) Finely granular synaptophysin expression (red) in the neuropil with a perineuronal accentuation indicating synapses (white arrow heads). (C) Strong neurofilament expression in the neuropil indicating presence of axons. Neuronal somas (black arrow head), glial cells and blood vessels remain unstained. (D) Astrocytes near dysmorphic neurons (arrows) express GFAP within their processes (red). Magnification A-D: ×400. Abbreviation: GFAP = glial fibrillary acidic protein