A 69-year-old woman with a prior L4/L5 TLIF presented to the clinic with a new onset of right lower limb radiculopathy along the L3 dermatome, as well as numbness in the L2 distribution. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies revealed adjacent segment degeneration in L2/L3 and L3/L4, with disc-osteophyte complexes impinging onto the exiting L2 and L3 nerve roots, respectively. We opted for a right L2/L3 and L3/L4 unilateral endoscopic biportal transforaminal decompression. The surgery was successful, with the patient being discharged from the hospital on postoperative day 1 with minimal pain. Within 2 weeks, the patient described significant improvement in both back pain and radiculopathy, and the numbness had completely resolved. Oswestry Disability Index was used to objectively quantify outcomes and saw an improvement from 15 to 0. Notably, there were no complications. We report the case of a 69-year-old female who presented with a 1-year history of back pain associated with right thigh numbness spanning the right L2 and L3 dermatomes associated with left-sided leg weakness. She subsequently developed right lower limb radiculopathy extending to her right thigh and knee. Her surgical history included a L4/L5 decompression laminectomy 10 years prior for L4/L5 degenerative spinal canal stenosis with spondylolisthesis. She also has a background of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. On neurological examination, based on the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) scoring (10), her power was grade 4 out of 5 for both L2 and L3 myotomes on the left side. Sensation was 1 out of 2 for both L2 and L3 dermatomes on the right. Straight leg raise was positive on the right at 30 degrees. The rest of the clinical examination, including that of power, sensation, reflexes, and gait, was normal. In view of the clinical history and examination findings, the clinical concern and main differential diagnosis was that of an ASD. To investigate her symptoms, erect lumbar spine (anterior-posterior/lateral) X-rays and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lumbosacral spine were performed (Figures 1-3). The X-rays and MRI revealed significant adjacent segment degenerative disc disease in L3/L4 and right-sided facet hypertrophy, with foraminal stenosis at the right L2/L3 and L3/L4 levels with significant pseudoarthrosis at the L3/L4 level. Anterior-posterior (left)/lateral (right) erect lumbar X-rays showing previous L4/L5 decompression laminectomy and fusion with instrumentation. Early evidence of adjacent segment degenerative disc disease in L3/L4 and right-sided facet hypertrophy. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging cuts at the L2/L3 level revealing adjacent segment degeneration. The left and rightmost yellow lines demarcate the scout lines of the image, whilst the middle line represents the corresponding cut seen on the left-sided image. T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging cuts at the L3/L4 level revealing adjacent segment degeneration. The top and bottom-most yellow lines demarcate the scout lines of the image, whilst the middle line represents the corresponding cut seen on the right-sided image. In view of the MRI findings, a shared decision was made with the patient regarding treatment modalities, and a diagnostic nerve block at L3 was subsequently performed. This resulted in significant symptom relief that lasted for less than a month. As such, the decision was made to proceed with the right percutaneous unilateral biportal endoscopic (UbE) foraminal decompression of the L2/L3 and L3/L4 levels. The operation was carried out in the prone position under general anaesthesia. An alignment rod was used together with intraoperative fluoroscopy to determine the location of the initial incision sites. First, the location of the right pedicle was ascertained (Figure 4). Next, the alignment rod was shifted 2 cm laterally to the pedicle (Figure 4). Subsequently, the relevant levels were identified (Figure 4). Three transverse 1-cm incisions were then made for the endoscopic ports. Intraoperative fluoroscopy showing (A) location of pedicles and (B) alignment rod being 2 cm lateral to pedicles, and (C) identifying key surgical levels for incision points, as indicated by the horizontal orange lines. A UbE approach was then used to access the right L2/L3 disc segment. This was followed by careful dissection down to the pedicles whereby osteophytes were removed from the superior articular process using the combination of a straight osteotome, curette and burr (Figure 5). A partial removal of the pars was also performed. The L2 exiting nerve was then found to be mobile following decompression (Figure 6). A large fusion body was encountered whilst attempting to decompress the L3/L4 segment which was hindering surgical exposure (Figure 7). Hence, a combination of curved and straight osteotomes was used to carefully excise it after confirmation with intraoperative imaging. The nerve root was noted to be unhealthy and pale prior to the decompression but showed significantly improved appearance after (Figure 8). Endoscopic images showing a combination of straight osteotome, curette, and burrs being used for decompression intraoperatively. Endoscopic view post-decompression of the right L2/L3 showing the nerve root to be completely mobile. Intraoperative radiograph showing a large fusion body encountered when attempting to decompress L3/4, which was hindering exposure. Nerve root shown to be initially unhealthy and pale prior to decompression (A) and then pink and healthy post-decompression (B). Triamcinolone acetonide was given to the L2 and L3 exiting nerve roots prior to skin closure. The arthroscopic portals were closed with a 2-0 Vicryl suture to the subcutaneous layer and a 3-0 Prolene suture to the skin. The wounds were then dressed with Mepilex. Intravenous cefazolin was continued for 24 hours, and regular analgesia was commenced in the form of paracetamol and gabapentin as per institutional guidelines. Neurobion was also prescribed to promote nerve regeneration. Intensive physiotherapy was also incorporated into her recovery regime the following day. The patient was discharged from the hospital on postoperative day 1 with minimal pain or residual symptoms. Two weeks after surgery, there was marked improvement in both back pain and right radiculopathy. The numbness in her right thigh completely resolved. The Oswestry Disability Index (11) was used to objectively quantify patient outcomes and saw an improvement from 15 to 0. The post-operative period was uneventful, and till date, there have been no notable complications with the patient still being well on recent follow-up 1 year later. No post-operative imaging was attained as per clinical guidelines, as she was symptom-free thereafter. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of Sengkang General Hospital (CIRB Ref No. 2020/2381) and with the Helsinki Declaration and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for the publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.