A 75-year-old man presented with a 10-year history of progressive lower back pain and right leg pain. His past medical history included Buerger's disease, hypertension, and bronchial asthma. Despite long-term conservative management, including pharmacological therapy and physiotherapy, his symptoms persisted and progressively worsened. Neurological examination revealed mild weakness in the right extensor hallucis longus muscle (manual muscle test grade 4/5). The straight leg raise test was positive at 80° on the right side and negative on the left. No bladder or bowel dysfunction was noted. Hypoesthesia was observed in the L5 dermatome on the right. A diagnostic right L5 nerve root block resulted in reproducible and temporary pain relief, indicating L5 radiculopathy. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the patient's lumbar spine confirmed bilateral pars interarticularis defects at L5 vertebra (Fig. 1). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated spinal canal stenosis, including right lateral recess stenosis at L4-5 and right-sided foraminal stenosis at L5-S1 associated with isthmic spondylolisthesis at L5 (Fig. 2). Dynamic lateral radiographs in flexion and extension revealed no significant intervertebral motion at L5-S1, consistent with a diagnosis of stable isthmic spondylolisthesis. Preoperative CT scans demonstrating isthmic spondylolisthesis at L5 and foraminal stenosis at L5-S1. (A) Right para-sagittal CT scan showing anterior slippage of L5 and pars defects. (B) Axial CT scan at the L4-5 level. (C) Axial CT scan at the L5-S1 level. (D) Three-dimensional posterolateral view showing pars defects (red arrow). CT: computed tomography Preoperative findings on MRI. (A) T2-weighted mid-sagittal MRI scan indicating spinal canal stenosis at L4-5. (B) Axial MRI scan at the L4-5 level showing right-sided lateral recess stenosis. (C) T2-weighted right para-sagittal MRI indicating foraminal stenosis at L5-S1 (white arrow). (D) Axial MRI scan at the L5-S1 level showing right-sided foraminal stenosis. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Given the patient's systemic comorbidities, including asthma, and his desire to avoid general anesthesia and spinal fusion, we proposed a 2-stage minimally invasive decompression strategy using transforaminal FESS under local anesthesia. Both the L4-5 lateral recess stenosis and the L5-S1 foraminal stenosis were considered potential causes of the L5 symptoms. However, imaging findings suggested that the stenosis was more severe at the L5-S1 level; and thus, this level was prioritized for treatment. In the first stage, we performed transforaminal full-endoscopic pars crisscross decompression at the L5-S1 level with the patient in the prone position. First, 1% lidocaine was injected for local anesthesia in the skin, subcutaneous tissue, fascia, and soft tissue near the pars defect and on the surface of the disc. Next, an 8-mm cannula was placed at the superior articular process (SAP) of S1. After removal of the soft tissue, the pars crisscross became visible. The pars crisscross includes the SAP of S1, the floating lamina, the inferior articular process (IAP) of L4, and the ragged edge of the pars. By resecting these in sequence, decompression of the exiting L5 nerve root was confirmed intraoperatively from the inlet to the outlet of the foramen. The operative time was 95 mins, blood loss was minimal, and ambulation was initiated 2 hrs postoperatively. However, the patient experienced persistent right leg pain despite technically successful decompression. Postoperative MRI and CT scans demonstrated adequate foraminal enlargement (Fig. 3). Endoscopic view after pars crisscross decompression and postoperative scans. (A) Intraoperative endoscopic view after decompression. The exiting L5 nerve root was decompressed from the inlet to the outlet of the intervertebral foramen at L5-S1 on the right. (B) Postoperative T2-weighted right para-sagittal MRI demonstrating decompression of intervertebral foramen at L5-S1 compared with the preoperative image (white arrow). (C) Postoperative axial CT scan confirming enlargement of the foramen (red circle). (D) Postoperative sagittal CT scan showing bony resection around the L5-S1 foramen on the right. (E) Three-dimensional CT scan obtained postoperatively. The red line indicates the resected area. CT: computed tomography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Three months later, a second-stage decompression was performed using FEVF at L4-5. Because the patient strongly preferred surgery under local anesthesia, FEVF―which can be performed under local anesthesia―was selected instead of interlaminar decompression, which requires general anesthesia. After adequate local anesthesia, a small skin incision was made 80 mm lateral to the midline. An 8-mm cannula was placed at the SAP of L5. After partial resection of the SAP and ventral portion of the IAP, flavectomy was performed to decompress the traversing right L5 nerve root. Complete decompression was confirmed intraoperatively. The operative time was 103 mins, blood loss was minimal, and ambulation was initiated 2 hrs postoperatively. The patient's right leg pain resolved immediately following the second surgery. Postoperative MRI and CT scans confirmed adequate decompression of the right lateral recess (Fig. 4). There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. At the 3-month follow-up, the patient remained symptom-free and had returned to his normal daily activities. Endoscopic view after full-endoscopic ventral facetectomy and postoperative scans. (A) Intraoperative endoscopic image showing a decompressed right traversing L5 nerve root. (B) Postoperative axial T2-weighted MRI at the L4-5 level demonstrating decompression of the right lateral recess compared with the preoperative image. (C) Postoperative axial CT scan confirming resection of the superior articular process at L5 and the ventral portion of the inferior articular process at L4 (ventral facetectomy). (D) Postoperative sagittal CT scan showing bony resection around the L4-5 foramen and lateral recess on the right. (E) Postoperative three-dimensional CT scan. The red line indicates the resected area. CT: computed tomography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging