A 39-year-old pregnant woman at 31 weeks and 5 days of gestation with a history of Crohn’s disease was referred for evaluation of persistent, nonresolving chronic frontal sinusitis. No nasal polyps were present. Despite completing 2 courses of antibiotics with only transient symptomatic relief, her condition worsened. She also underwent balloon sinuplasty, which failed to alleviate her symptoms. Daily use of intranasal fluticasone (Flonase®, Haleon) and saline irrigation provided no improvement. Notably, she had previously experienced right upper quadrant pain radiating to the back, which had been attributed to pregnancy-related changes. One month prior to presentation, she developed visual disturbances and headaches, prompting magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, which revealed right frontal lobe edema and left frontal sinus opacification. At the time of evaluation, she denied headache, vision changes, epistaxis, nasal discharge, and lymphadenopathy. Physical examination was notable only for 2 areas of palpable edema on the central forehead without overlying warmth, erythema, or tenderness. Bony prominences and sinuses were non-tender to palpation. Laboratory studies were significant for neutrophilic leukocytosis (white blood cell: 18.55 × 109/L) and mild anemia (Hgb: 11.3 g/dL). A noncontrast brain MRI study demonstrated intracranial extension of bifrontal sinusitis with mass effect on the right frontal lobe and focal leftward deviation of the falx cerebri. Associated findings on MRI included bifrontal osteomyelitis, subdural empyema, and a bilateral subcutaneous scalp abscess extending along the frontal bone (Figure 1). (A) Sagittal T1 and (B) axial T2 views of MRI of the brain showing intracranial extension of a process centered in the sinuses (green arrow), overlying the right frontal lobe with regional mass effect (white arrow) on underlying cerebral parenchyma and leftward deviation of the falx focally (blue arrow). A subcutaneous scalp abscess courses along the frontal bone (orange arrow) and extends bilaterally. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. The patient underwent endoscopic bilateral frontal sinusotomy, anterior ethmoidectomy, and septoplasty. Intraoperatively, a left septal deviation and dishwater-like fluid within the left frontal sinus were noted. Pale, edematous tissue was observed in bilateral frontal recesses, but no discrete masses or purulent collections were identified. Cultures of the fluid were negative for bacterial (aerobic and anaerobic) and fungal organisms. Human immunodeficiency virus testing was negative, and there was no evidence of peripheral lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly. Histological examination revealed reactive ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium overlying diffuse infiltrates of large atypical lymphoid cells exhibiting high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratios, round to irregular nuclear contours, conspicuous nucleoli, and mitoses (Figure 2A and B). The background cells consisted of scattered mature lymphocytes, eosinophils, and apoptotic bodies. The neoplastic cells expressed CD20, PAX5, CD10, BCL6, IRF4/MUM1 (strong and diffuse), CD45, and a high proliferative index of 70% to 80% was identified (Figure 2C-F). The atypical cells were negative for desmin, AE1/AE3, Cyclin D1, SOX10, CD3, CD5, CD23, CD30, BCL-2, and EBV by in situ hybridization. Fluorescence in situ hybridization studies revealed an IRF4 locus rearrangement at 6p25.3, confirming a diagnosis of LBCL with IRF4 rearrangement (LBCL-IRF4). (A) Low power and (B) high power histologic images of a diffuse infiltrate by large, atypical lymphoid cells with a high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio, irregular and vesicular nuclei, and a moderate amount of cytoplasm. Atypical mitoses and apoptotic bodies are appreciated (hematoxylin and eosin, 100× and 500× oil, respectively). Immunohistochemical stains for (C) CD20, (D) MIB-1, (E) BCL-6, and (F) IRF4/MUM1 show diffuse positivity in tumor cells (100×). Subsequently, full-body imaging was performed and showed metastases to the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine. The patient underwent induction of labor and parturition prior to initiating chemotherapy. She received 6 cycles of MR-CHOP (high-dose methotrexate, rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine) with intrathecal cytarabine and Cyberknife intensity-modulated radiation therapy to the frontal sinus and T7-T12. At the 2-year follow-up visit, the patient continued to show no evidence of disease.