A 19-year-old female presented with a painful mass in the right abdominal region, persisting for 2 months. She had been diagnosed with tuberculous spondylitis involving the L1–L2 vertebrae. The initial management included posterior spinal debridement and stabilization from T12 to L4. Despite undergoing surgical intervention and anti-tuberculosis therapy for 8 months, the patient developed a firm, non-pulsatile mass in the right abdominal region. Imaging studies revealed a large retroperitoneal abscess and intraosseous collections. Abdominal CT angiography revealed a right lumbar artery pseudoaneurysm. The vascular lesion was successfully treated by embolization. This was followed by debridement and hematoma evacuation through a lumbotomy. No active bleeding from the pseudoaneurysm was observed during the intraoperative period. A 19-year-old female student presented with a 2-month history of a painful lump accompanied by a burning sensation localized to the right side of her abdomen. Approximately 9 months prior to presentation, she began experiencing persistent lower back pain associated with paresthesia in the lower extremities. Six months prior, she was diagnosed with tuberculous spondylitis and subsequently initiated on standard anti-tuberculosis therapy. Three months prior, the patient had undergone posterior debridement and stabilization from T12 to L4 due to tuberculous spondylitis involving the L1–L2 vertebrae. Intraoperatively, approximately 2 liters of purulent material was encountered. Postoperatively, neurological evaluation revealed no deficits, indicating preserved motor function and intact sensory modalities (Fig. 1). Figure 1.(A–C) Preoperative Radiology that shows tuberculous spondylitis involving the L1–L2 vertebrae and paravertebral abscess; (D) Postoperative Radiology that shows spinal instrumentation after debridement and posterior stabilization. (A–C) Preoperative Radiology that shows tuberculous spondylitis involving the L1–L2 vertebrae and paravertebral abscess; (D) Postoperative Radiology that shows spinal instrumentation after debridement and posterior stabilization. On physical examination, the abdomen appeared mildly distended, and a firm, fixed, and mass measuring approximately 20 × 10 cm was palpated in the right lumbar region. No indications of urinary or bowel dysfunction were observed (Fig. 2). The laboratory examination showed erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 70 mm/hour, C-reactive the following: white blood cell count (WBC) 5.6 × 109 cells/l, protein (CRP) 0.87 mg/l, hemoglobin 6.5 g/l, albumin 2.70 g/l, and HIV-ab negative. Figure 2.Clinical picture that shows distended abdomen and palpated mass in the right lumbar region. Clinical picture that shows distended abdomen and palpated mass in the right lumbar region. Imaging studies, including MRI and CT, demonstrated destruction of the L1–L2 vertebral bodies and a large retroperitoneal abscess measuring up to 19.8 cm in diameter. The abscess extended into both psoas muscles, the paravertebral space, and the subcutaneous tissues from T12 to L4 (Fig. 3). The patient was initially diagnosed with tuberculous spondylitis L1-2 with paravertebral and right psoas abscesses. Debridement via the Lumbotomy Approach was performed to evacuate the abscess. However, the surgery for debridement was postponed due to intraoperative findings of clot formation (Fig. 3b). We suggest that another examination be performed. Figure 3.(A) MRI and CT, demonstrated destruction of the L1–L2 vertebral bodies and a large retroperitoneal abscess; (B) First intraoperative picture surgery that shows clot formation in the right abdomen. (A) MRI and CT, demonstrated destruction of the L1–L2 vertebral bodies and a large retroperitoneal abscess; (B) First intraoperative picture surgery that shows clot formation in the right abdomen. Abdominal CT angiography revealed a vascular lesion measuring approximately 1.3 × 1.5 × 1.1 cm, located posterior to the right renal artery at the L1 level, with a surrounding hematoma, highly suggestive of a lumbar artery pseudoaneurysm (Fig. 4). Figure 4.CT Angiography demonstrated a right lumbar artery pseudoaneurysm and embolization of the pseudoaneurysm was performed. CT Angiography demonstrated a right lumbar artery pseudoaneurysm and embolization of the pseudoaneurysm was performed. Subsequently, embolization of the right lumbar artery pseudoaneurysm was successfully performed after intraoperative confirmation of active extravasation at L1. The patient underwent debridement via a lumbotomy approach for the second time, along with evacuation of the clot. No active bleeding was observed in the pseudoaneurysm. Approximately, 1.5 liters of the clot was successfully evacuated (Fig. 5). Figure 5.Intraoperative picture of the second surgery that shows clot formation evacuation. Intraoperative picture of the second surgery that shows clot formation evacuation.