SEL grading system: Borré classification The small amount of epidural fat in a normal individual usually ranges from 3 to 6 mm in thickness on sagittal plane [6]. The Borré classification was first described in 2003 for the objective grading of excessive epidural fat in patients with lumbar SEL [7]. The authors suggest performing the grading on an axial plane that is parallel and tangent to the superior endplate of the S1 vertebral body. Three measurements are utilized at the midline: the anteroposterior (AP) length of the spinal canal, the dural sac, and the epidural fat. Calculation of the ratio of dural sac to epidural fat (dura/fat ratio) and the percentage of epidural fat to spinal canal (fat percentage of spinal canal) are then performed. Despite L5/S1 level is commonly involved in SEL, application of grading only to this single level may not accurately reflect the extent of excessive epidural fat in the rest of the lumbar spine. This is because conditions such as commonly seen L5/S1 spondylolisthesis and spinal operation can alter the amount of epidural fat. More recent article has suggested that the same measurement and ratios can be performed at other spinal levels, as well as on sagittal images, for SEL grading [2]. Table 1 summarizes the grading suggested by Borré et al. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; SEL: spinal epidural lipomatosis. Source: Borré et al. [7]. For illustrative purposes, we applied the grading system on a young male patient with chronic low back pain (Figure 1). The anteroposterior (AP) length of the spinal canal (from vertebral body anteriorly to ligamentum flavum posteriorly) measures 19.7 mm. The dural sac measures 14.0 mm. The thickness of epidural fat (including fat anterior and posterior to dural sac) measures 5.7 mm. The measurements on the sagittal plane yields largely similar values compared with the axial plane. Thus, we obtained the following values for calculation: Dura/fat ratio = 14.0/5.7 = 2.5 and fat percentage of spinal canal = 5.7/19.7 x 100% = 28.9%. Both values are in line with normal grade of epidural fat. Red line: AP length of spinal canal; green line: AP length of dural sac; yellow line: AP length of epidural fat. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. Case 1 A 25-year-old woman initially presented with buttock pain radiating to the left calf. She has no lower limb weakness or numbness. The straight leg raise test on the left side was positive at 70 degrees. Sagittal T1-weighted MRI of the lumbosacral spine shows thick subcutaneous fat, suggestive of underlying obesity. There is prominent epidural fat from L2 to S2 levels. L5/S1 disc protrusion with mild spinal stenosis is also seen (Figure 2A). An axial T2-weighted image at the L4/5 level, which has the greatest amount of epidural fat, shows no significant spinal stenosis. The normal oval configuration of the dural sac is preserved. The dura/fat ratio at this level is 1.05, and the percentage of epidural fat to the spinal canal is 49%, classified as mild SEL according to the Borré classification (Figure 2B). The axial T2-weighted image at the L5/S1 level better shows posterior disc protrusion with lateral recess stenosis touching bilateral descending S1 nerve roots (Figure 2C). (A) Sagittal T1-weighted image shows prominent epidural fat, especially from L2 to S2 levels. (B) Axial T2-weighted image at L5 superior endplate shows a normal dural sac (dura/fat ratio = 1.05, fat% = 49%), mild SEL. (C) Axial T2-weighted image at the L5/S1 level shows posterior disc protrusion, causing bilateral lateral recess stenosis touching descending S1 nerve roots. This may explain patient’s radiculopathy. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; SEL: spinal epidural lipomatosis. In this case, the likely cause of radiculopathy is L5/S1 disc protrusion, with co-existing SEL. On follow-up, the patient reported engaging in regular swimming exercise and achieving weight loss. The low back and left leg pain have subjectively reduced to ~70% of the baseline. Case 2 A 70-year-old man with a history of obstructive sleep apnea and known obesity. He complained of increasing low back pain for years with radiation to the left leg. Upon physical examination, no lower limb weakness or numbness was noted. Sagittal T1-weighted MRI of the lumbosacral spine shows thick subcutaneous fat and increased epidural fat from the L2/3 to L4/5 levels. Lumbar spondylosis with marginal osteophytes and disc herniation are evident (Figure 3A). An axial T2-weighted image at the L3/4 level shows an asymmetrical posterior disc herniation, which is more prominent at the left paracentral region. The synergistic effect of increased epidural fat and disc herniation results in moderate spinal stenosis. The dural sac is in polygonal shape with mild crowding of the cauda equina. The dura/fat ratio is 0.64, and the percentage of epidural fat to spinal canal is 61%, classified as moderate SEL (Figure 3B, C). (A) Sagittal T1-weighted image shows increased epidural fat from the L2/3 to L4/5 levels. Lumbar spondylosis with marginal osteophytes and disc herniation are evident. (B, C) Axial T2-weighted images at the L3/4 level, near the superior endplate of L4, show an asymmetrical posterior disc herniation, which is more prominent on the left paracentral region. The dural sac is in polygonal shape with mild crowding of the cauda equina (dura/fat ratio = 0.64, fat% = 61%), moderate SEL. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; SEL: spinal epidural lipomatosis. Case 3 A 60-year-old man, who underwent clipping for an anterior communicating artery aneurysm, complained of progressive numbness and weakness in bilateral lower limb over the past three months. He also has a known history of chronic low back pain for more than 10 years. Recently, he can only walk for 15 minutes due to worsening symptoms. Physical examination showed reduced power and sensation at the bilateral L2 and L3 levels. Sagittal T1-weighted MRI of the lumbosacral spine shows a loss of lumbar lordosis, thick subcutaneous fat, and increased epidural fat from L1 to S2 levels (Figure 4A). An axial T2-weighted image at the L2/3 level shows that the combined effects of posterior epidural fat, mild disc bulging, and facet arthrosis result in moderate spinal stenosis and polygonal configuration of dural sac. The dura/fat ratio is 0.58, and the percentage of epidural fat to spinal canal is 63% (Figure 4B). At the L5/S1 level, both anterior and posterior epidural fat compress the dural sac to “Y” shape. The dura/fat ratio is 0.63, and the percentage of epidural fat to spinal canal is 61% (Figure 4C). Both are moderate SEL. The synergistic effect of increased epidural fat and degenerative changes results in crowding of the cauda equina. The patient was referred to the orthopedic team and suggested lifestyle modification for losing weight. (A) Sagittal T1-weighted image shows a loss of lumbar lordosis and prominent epidural fat from L1 to S2 levels. (B) Axial T2-weighted image at L2/3 shows increased posterior epidural fat and degenerative changes, resulting in moderate spinal stenosis with polygonal dural sac (dura/fat ratio = 0.58, fat% = 63%). (C) Axial T2-weighted image at L5/S1 level revealed a Y-shaped dural sac from anterior and posterior epidural fat compression (dura/fat ratio= 0.63, fat% = 61%). Both levels are moderate SEL, with cauda equina crowding. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; SEL: spinal epidural lipomatosis. Case 4 A 72-year-old man was referred to the orthopedic clinic for chronic low back pain, buttock pain, and progressive spinal claudication after walking for 30 minutes. He also reported numbness in both anterior shins. He has a known history of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension. Physical examination showed reduced power and sensation at the L4 and L5 levels (Left>Right). Sagittal T1-weighted MRI of the lumbosacral spine shows thick subcutaneous fat and excessive epidural fat, especially at L3/4 to L5/S1 levels, both anterior and posterior to the dural sac. Lumbar spondylosis with marginal osteophytes and disc herniation are seen. The combined effect of excessive epidural fat and degenerative elements results in severe spinal stenosis, compression onto the dural sac with redundant nerve roots, suggestive of chronic cauda equina compression (Figure 5A). Axial T2-weighted image near the L3/4 level shows a polygonal dural sac and measurements of moderate SEL (Figure 5B). Near the L4/5 level, there is a stellate configuration of the dural sac due to circumferential epidural fat compression. The dura/fat ratio is 0.25, and the percentage of epidural fat to spinal canal is 80%, classified as severe SEL (Figure 5C). The patient was offered decompression surgery, but he refused due to worry on surgical risk. (A) Sagittal T1-weighted image shows excessive epidural fat, especially at the L3/4 to L5/S1 levels, both anterior and posterior to the dural sac. The combined effect of excessive epidural fat and degenerative changes results in severe spinal stenosis. (B) Axial T2-weighted image near the L3/4 level shows a polygonal dural sac (dural/fat ratio: 0.45, fat%: 70%), moderate SEL. (C) Axial T2-weighted image near the L4/5 level shows a stellate dural sac (dura/fat ratio: 0.25, fat%: 80%), severe SEL. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; SEL: spinal epidural lipomatosis.