A 38-year-old Chinese man presented to our hospital with back pain lasting for 1 month. He presented thoracolumbar mobility limitations. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a well-defined margin extradural soft tissue mass involving the intervertebral foramen and paravertebral region at level L1-L2. The mass measured approximately 31×47×42 mm and demonstrated heterogeneous signal intensity on T1-weighted imaging and hyperintensity on STIR images. Imaging showed psoas compression, with diffuse homogeneous edema. On post-contrast images, the mass showed heterogeneous enhancement, and the edematous psoas showed homogeneous enhancement. Pathological examination of the biopsy specimen revealed clusters of atypical small blue round cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, scant cytoplasm, and frequent mitotic figures. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumor cells demonstrated strong membranous positivity for CD99 and nuclear positivity for NKX2.2. The final diagnosis was extraskeletal Ewing sarcoma. Chest computed tomography revealed multiple nodal metastases. The patient underwent chemotherapy for 4 cycles, and the tumor showed no response to treatment. The patient refused further chemotherapy and took only oral analgesic. He died 12 months after presenting to our hospital. A 38-year-old Chinese man presented with a 1-month history of thoracolumbar pain that worsened at night and had become progressively more severe. His medical history was unremarkable. Physical examination revealed alignment straightening of the thoracolumbar vertebrae. He exhibited limitations of thoracolumbar flexion, extension, and lateroversion, as well as tenderness of the thoracolumbar spinal processes and paravertebral muscles. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine revealed a lobulated mass in the left paravertebral region (Figure 1). The mass measured approximately 31×47×42 mm and had a well-defined margin. It showed intermediate signal intensity on T1-weighted imaging with mild heterogeneity and hyperintensity on short tau inversion recovery (STIR) images (Figure 1A, 1B). Patchy hyperintensity was observed on T1-weighted MRI (Figure 1A). The psoas was compressed and showed feathery increased signal intensity on T2-weighted images, while having maintained muscle texture (Figure 1A–1C). Axial MRI showed that the mass extended into the L1-L2 intervertebral foramen and compressed the thecal sac (Figure 1D). The mass and edematous psoas showed a significant increase in signal intensity on MRI after gadolinium-based contrast enhancement (Figure 2A, 2B). The patient underwent computed tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous core needle biopsy and immunohistochemistry (Figure 3). Histopathological examination revealed clusters of atypical small blue round cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, scant cytoplasm, and frequent mitotic figures (Figure 4A). Immunohistochemistry showed positivity for NKX2.2 (Figure 4B) and CD99 (Figure 4C). Overall, these findings were consistent with EES. Computed tomography of the lungs revealed multiple nodules in the bilateral pulmonary fields (Figure 5). Based on the clinical, imaging, and histopathological findings, the patient received a diagnosis of pulmonary metastases. The patient was treated nonsurgically because of the multiple pulmonary metastases. However, the tumor showed no response to 4 cycles of chemotherapy consisting of vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide. The patient refused further chemotherapy and accepted only oral analgesics. He died 12 months after presentation to our hospital.