Case 1 Patient History A 27-year-old female presented with complaints of weakness of the left lower limb for three days and a history of neck pain with vomiting for one day. On admission, the patient was afebrile, with a blood pressure of 130/88 mmHg and a pulse rate of 88 bpm. On examination, motor powers in the left lower limb were 4/5 for hip flexion and extension 4/5 and 4/5 for knee and ankle joints. Motor powers in the bilateral upper limbs and right lower limb were 5/5. There was no history of any bowel and bladder disturbances and sensations were intact. Tone increased in the left lower limb with exaggerated deep tendon reflexes (DTRs). Plantar extensor was positive on the left side and mute on the right side. Diagnostic Workup MRI of the spine revealed flow voids in the posterior CSF space extending from the craniomedullary junction to the C2-C3 disc level with suspicion of extension into the spinal cord (Figures 1A, 2A). The gold standard investigation - digital subtraction angiography (DSA) - was done under local anesthesia, which revealed intradural perimedullary AVM (type IV, subtype II) with a tuft of the nidus of size 2 x 1.5 x 2 mm at C1-C2 segment of the spinal cord with feeders from the cervical branch of right vertebral artery and anterior spinal artery. The venous drainage was into ascending perimedullary veins with multiple venous ectasia, leading to a diagnosis of cervical AVM intradural perimedullary (type IV subtype II) - C1-C2 segment of the spinal cord (Figures 1B-1E). AVM: arteriovenous malformation; DSA: digital subtraction angiography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Treatment The patient underwent transarterial glue embolization through right femoral access, which resulted in an improvement of the motor power of the left hip. Post-treatment, the patient was followed up for three months. On follow-up, there was an improvement of motor power in the left lower limb - hip flexion and extension improved to 4+/5, knee and ankle joints improved to 3/5 and physiotherapy was continued. At the six-month follow-up, the motor power had improved to 5/5 on all four limbs. The patient was able to return to normal activities soon. At the one-year follow-up, there were no new deficits (Figure 2B). Case 2 Patient History A 51-year-old male presented with complaints of difficulty in walking due to weakness in the bilateral lower limbs, left more than the right, with tingling and numbness in extremities for four weeks. A history of severe low back pain was also present. The patient was a known case of chronic liver disease (CLD) Child-Pugh type 1 and diabetes mellitus. On admission, the patient was afebrile, with a blood pressure of 120/78 mmHg and a pulse rate of 82 bpm. Neurological examination revealed motor power of grade 2/5 in the left hip and knee, and 4/5 in the right hip and knee. Motor power in the bilateral ankle was 3/5 and in the bilateral extensor hallucis longus (EHL) was 2/5. Tone increased in the four limbs. Sensations were reduced in bilateral lower limbs. DTRs were exaggerated bilaterally. Planters were mute bilaterally. Diagnostic Workup MRI of the spine revealed prominent flow voids in the spinal cord from D11 to L5 vertebral levels with probable feeder from the radiculomedullary branch arising from the lower intercostal artery suggestive of dural AVM (Figure 3A). At all these levels, spinal cord edema was also seen. DSA under local anesthesia revealed low-flow dorsal AVM with feeders from the D10 intercostal branch. A tuft of nidus was identified at the L1 level, with very small feeders seen from Intercostal branches. The intracranial vessels and iliac vessels were found to be normal (Figure 3B). AVM: arteriovenous malformation; DSA: digital subtraction angiography Treatment The patient underwent transarterial glue embolization through right femoral access with a pigtail catheter. The D10 intercostal artery feeder was cannulated with an HH1 catheter. The microcatheter was navigated into the major feeder and embolized with 50/50% acrylic glue and lipoidol. After the embolization, nidus filling stopped. Other feeders were not accessible with microcatheters. However, during the procedure, after embolization, the patient developed severe back pain, due to which further catheter manipulation was not done. Follow-up DSA is planned for this patient to rule out any recruitment. Post-treatment, the patient was followed up with MRI imaging after three months, which showed progression of the prior documented flow voids along the spinal cord, which were seen extending to the upper thoracic cord. Prior documented cord signal changes involving the distal spinal cord including the conus remained nearly the same. There were no features of cord atrophy. One-year follow-up MRI and DSA imaging showed minimal Dural AVM filling (Figure 4). The patient was posted for second-stage DSA and embolization. On follow-up, the patient's weakness had improved and he was able to perform his routine daily activities. AVM: arteriovenous malformation; DSA: digital subtraction angiography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Case 3 Patient History A 63-year-old male presented with complaints of difficulty in walking due to weakness of bilateral lower limbs. He also gave a history of buckling of the knees while walking. The patient was afebrile, with a blood pressure of 136/74 mmHg and a pulse rate of 82 bpm. Neurological examination revealed motor power of 4/5 for bilateral hip flexion and extension, 4/5 for knee flexion and extension, and 3/5 for ankle dorsi- and plantar flexion. Motor powers for EHL flexion and extension were 3/5. Sensations were reduced bilaterally from knees to feet. Bladder incontinence was also present. Diagnostic Workup MRI of the spine revealed dural AVM with an arterial feeder from the radiculomedullary branch of the D12 intercostal artery on the left side. The dorsal cord showed diffuse T2 bright signals from D7 to conus, which were highly suggestive of cord edema with the concern of cord ischemia due to chronic dural AVM (Figure 5A). DSA was performed, which confirmed type 1 spinal dural AVM with arterial feeder from L1 lumbar radicular artery with delayed venous drainage into the perimedullary venous plexus with the presence of nidus at L4 level. Evidence of tortuous arterial feeder was also identified (Figure 5B). AVM: arteriovenous malformation; DSA: digital subtraction angiography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Treatment The patient underwent trans arterial glue embolization through right femoral access, which revealed a low flow, type 1 spinal dural AVM with arterial feeder from L1 lumbar radicular artery with delayed venous drainage into the perimedullary venous plexus. Under all aseptic precautions, using the transfemoral route and modified Seldinger technique, a 6F arterial sheath was inserted and the L1 lumbar artery was cannulated using Cobra 5F. Using Magic 1.5F, the arterial feeder cannulated distally with the help of a microwire. Glue embolization was done using NBCA:Lipiodol in a 30:70 ratio. Post-procedure injection showed no filling of the AV malformation, with glue cast in the arterial feeder. Following this, the catheter was removed with the sheath kept in situ. Post-treatment, at the three-month follow-up, bilateral lower limb power improved to 4/5 in hips, 4/5 in knee extension, 3/5 in knee flexion, 3/5 in ankle, and 3/5 in EHL with bilateral mute plantar reflexes. However, urinary incontinence persisted and the patient was catheterized. At the one-year follow-up, bilateral lower limb power further improved, albeit with persisting incontinence (Figure 6). DSA: digital subtraction angiography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging