We present the case of a nine-year-old male patient, admitted to Agia Sophia General Children’s Hospital in Athens for evaluation and management of progressive scoliosis. His medical history was significant for acute flaccid paralysis of both lower limbs and respiratory failure at 18 months of age, for which he was diagnosed with GBS, following prompt clinical and laboratory assessment. Unfortunately, his neurological condition remained unchanged over time. Three months after diagnosis, he developed an acute respiratory infection requiring tracheostomy placement, followed by a long-term mechanical respiratory support. During the time of assessment, respiratory support was used only during nighttime. The patient had been under regular pediatric follow-up. Thus, three months before presentation to our clinic, he was referred due to noticeable progression of a spinal deformity. Neurologically, no improvement had occurred since the initial GBS diagnosis, while he was still non-ambulatory. Imaging evaluation included plain radiographs which revealed a 71° thoracic Cobb angle (Figures 1, 2), indicating the need for surgical correction. Bilateral hip dislocation was also present (Figure 3). AP: Anteroposterior AP: Anteroposterior Detailed preoperative planning occurred, together with an extended preoperative evaluation of the patient. Eventually, the patient underwent posterior spinal correction using a non-fusion minimally invasive bipolar fixation (MIBF) technique. More specifically, two short posterior incisions were used with the patient in prone position under general anesthesia, applying lower-limb traction and full intra-operative neuromonitoring. Given his non-ambulatory status, the pelvis was included in the construct. A short midline incision at the lumbosacral junction allowed exposure of the sacrum through a Wiltse approach. In that way, bilateral sacral cortical entry points were created lateral to the S1 articular process and above the first posterior sacral foramen. Then iliosacral connectors were inserted, followed by percutaneous iliosacral screw placement in an oblique anteroposterior trajectory to avoid the spinal canal. Furthermore, thoracic fixation was achieved through a second short midline incision. Then hooks were placed as they are better in terms of strong fixation, particularly in patients with neuromuscular disease or poor bone quality. Moreover, precontoured rods were placed in the thoracic hooks and then connected to the lumbosacral/iliosacral construct using dominos, allowing the potential for future lengthening given the patient’s age and the non-fusion nature of the technique (Figure 4). Regarding the postoperative recovery, the patient signed an uneventful progress and was discharged seven days postoperatively. Postoperative imaging demonstrated satisfactory correction, reducing the thoracic Cobb angle to 32°, corresponding to a 54.93% correction rate (Figure 5). During the latest follow-up, one-and-a-half years postoperatively, the patient continues to do well and remains actively engaged in rehabilitation (Figures 6, 7). AP: Anteroposterior AP: Anteroposterior