A 66-year-old woman presented with a 1-year history of pain and numbness radiating from the right buttock to the posterior thigh. She also experienced intermittent claudication limiting her walking to 10 minutes. Physical examination revealed no motor deficits, no neurogenic bladder or rectal dysfunction, and a negative straight leg raise test. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a 32 × 16 mm intradural mass at the L5 level with iso-intensity on both T1- and T2-weighted images and uniform contrast enhancement. The lesion displayed a well-defined border with the central canal (Fig. 1A–F). Computed tomography myelography demonstrated obstruction of CSF flow at the tumor level due to its intradural location (Fig. 1G and H). Imaging findings of clear cell meningioma (CCM). (A and B) Preoperative T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the sagittal (A) and axial (B) sections. (C and D) Preoperative T2-weighted MRI in the sagittal (C) and axial (D) sections. (E and F) Preoperative gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MRI in the sagittal (E) and axial (F) sections. (G and H) Computed tomography (CT) images following myelography in the sagittal (G) and axial (H) sections. The patient underwent lumbar laminectomy and complete tumor resection. Intraoperatively, the tumor was observed to compress the cauda equina nerve severely but was notably nonadherent to the dura mater (Fig. 2A). A single, thinning nerve fiber was found to connect the tumor to surrounding neural structures (Fig. 2B), and careful dissection allowed for its removal as an intact mass. The tumor was elastic-hard with a smooth surface and yellowish interior (Fig. 2C). Cross-sectional tissue showed multifocal nodules after formalin fixation (Fig. 2D). Intraoperative findings and gross appearance of the resected clear cell meningioma (CCM). (A and B) The tumor was located in the dura mater (A) and attached to a nerve fiber without continuity with the dura mater (B). The tumor was completely resected after dissecting the continuity with the nerve fiber. (C) The resected tumor was approximately 30 mm in length with soft, yellowish tissue. (D) A half-section of the tumor after formalin fixation, showing multifocal nodules. In the histopathological evaluation, hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed a lobular proliferation of tumor cells with oval or round-shaped nuclei and clear cytoplasm, arranged in a vague whorl-like pattern (Fig. 3A). Interstitial collagen fibers were highlighted by Masson-Trichrome staining (Fig. 3B). Periodic acid–Schiff (PAS)-positive and diastase-sensitive cytoplasmic granules were widely observed in the glycogen-rich areas (Fig. 3C). No tumor necrosis or psammoma bodies were identified. Histopathological findings of the clear cell meningioma (CCM). (A) Hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed a lobular proliferation of tumor cells with oval or round-shaped nuclei and clear cytoplasm, arranged in a vague whorl-like pattern. (B) Interstitial collagen fibers are highlighted by Masson-Trichrome staining. (C) Periodic acid–Schiff (PAS)-positive and cytoplasmic granules were widely seen in the glycogen-rich area. Scale bars: 50 μm (A and C); 100 μm (B). Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that the tumor cells were positive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) (Fig. 4A), somatostatin type 2 receptor (Fig. 4B), progesterone receptor (PgR) (Fig. 4C), and Vimentin. They were negative for glial fibrillary acidic protein, S-100 proteins (Fig. 4D), and CD34, a marker of vascular endothelial progenitor cells. The Ki-67/MIB-1 labeling index was 5% at the hotspot (Fig. 4E). We further made multiple short-axis sections of the tumor at a thickness of 2 mm. The tumor margins did not show collagenous tissue consistent with a component of the dura matter (Fig. 4F). Interestingly, localized S-100 positivity suggested a potential neural origin for the tumor, possibly from the soft membrane of the caudal nerve. Short-axis sections showed no evidence of dural attachment, supporting the hypothesis of a non-dural origin (Fig. 4G–I). Based on the results of histologic evaluation, the resection specimen was definitive for CCM. Immunohistochemical profile of the clear cell meningioma (CCM). (A–D) Immunohistochemical staining showed that the tumor cells were positive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) (A), somatostatin type 2 receptor (SSTR2a) (B), and progesterone receptor (PgR) (C), but negative for S-100 proteins (D), a marker of peripheral nerve sheath tumors. (E) The Ki-67/MIB-1 labeling index was 5% at the hotspot. (F) Hematoxylin and eosin staining showed that the tumor margins did not contain collagenous tissue consistent with a component of the dura mater. (G–I) The tumor contained a localized S-100-positive area within the part of the tumor considered to be connected to the neural fibers. Scale bars: 50 μm (E); 100 μm (A, B, C, D, F, G, H, and I). Postoperatively, the patient reported complete resolution of pain, numbness, and gait disturbance. The visual analogue scale scores for leg pain and numbness improved from 7.4 and 7.3 to 0, respectively, and the Japanese Orthopaedic Association score improved from 22 to 28 (out of 29). Follow-up MRI at 1 year demonstrated no evidence of recurrence (Fig. 5A–D). Postoperative imaging findings of the clear cell meningioma (CCM). (A and B) One year postoperatively, T1-weighted MRI in the sagittal (A) and axial (B) sections. (C and D) Postoperative T2-weighted MRI in the sagittal (C) and axial (D) sections.