A 38-year-old female patient was admitted to the emergency department for low back pain, urinary retention, bowel incontinence, and muscle weakness in the lower extremities. The patient had a history of low back pain for 10 years and was previously diagnosed with lumbar disc herniation. Although surgery was recommended in the past, she preferred spinal manipulation and attended multiple sessions. The symptoms started after the last session, and magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine in the emergency department revealed central disc extrusion at the L5-S1 level (Figure 1). The patients was diagnosed with cauda equina syndrome and had an urgent partial L5 laminectomy, a right S1 foraminotomy, and the removal of sequestered discs. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient. Figure 1(a) Central disc extrusion (white arrows) at the L5-S1 level in the sagittal and (b) axial planes of magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine. Two months after the operation, the patient was referred to our physical medicine and rehabilitation clinic for rehabilitation. On physical examination, muscle strength was 3/5 in hip f lexors, 4/5 in hip extensors, abductors, and adductors, 3/5 in knee flexors, 4/5 in knee extensors, 3/5 in ankle flexors and extensors, and 4/5 in big toe extensors bilaterally. The patient had hypoesthesia in the right S1 dermatome and anesthesia in the bilateral S3, S4, and S5 dermatomes. Patellar tendon reflexes were normal, but Achilles tendon reflexes were absent. An indwelling urinary catheter was placed due to impaired bladder sensation. The patient also complained of fecal incontinence, and her anal sphincter tone was decreased. The patient was able to walk without assistance but was unable to jog or run. The following rehabilitation program was recommended for the patient: strengthening exercises, robot-assisted therapy, walking-balance training, neuromuscular electrical stimulation, and analgesic current for an hour, five days a week for 10 weeks. The bladder function was assessed by urodynamic studies, and it was consistent with a noncontractile detrusor and decreased bladder sensation. The patient was started on clean intermittent catheterization six times a day with fluid restriction. Before each catheterization, voiding was attempted with Valsalva and Crede maneuvers. Spontaneous urination started after four weeks. By monitoring the patient’s spontaneous urination, the daily frequency of clean intermittent catheterization was gradually reduced and then discontinued. A timed voiding program was implemented to avoid complications from urinary retention. Postvoid residual volume was measured via a bladder scan and was planned to be less than 100 mL. Repeat urodynamic studies yielded similar results as the initial tests. A bowel rehabilitation program for neurogenic bowel dysfunction was also started. The patients was advised to increase the consumption of fiber-rich nutrients. Timed toilet activity was planned at least once a day, half an hour after meals. As a result of our interventions, the frequency of bowel incontinence decreased to once weekly from at least once daily after six weeks. The patient was single and expressed concern about how this condition might affect her sexual life after marriage. Possible rehabilitation approaches were also discussed with the rehabilitation team. Biofeedback-guided pelvic floor exercises were added to the rehabilitation program to strengthen the pelvic floor and increase sensory input. Since the patient stated that she started to feel a very slight sensation in that area, additional neuromuscular electrical stimulation was tried, but it was unsuccessful and was discontinued to avoid complications. The patient was exhausted trying to cope with this situation, accept it, and manage her medical problems simultaneously. As an important component of comprehensive rehabilitation, the patient's psychological state was also evaluated. During the entire rehabilitation process, the patient’s morale and mood were monitored by a psychiatrist and psychologist. The patient was discharged after 10 weeks of rehabilitation. Upon discharge, the patient was able to successfully urinate with the Valsalva and Crede maneuvers. Fecal incontinence also improved. The motor dysfunction in the lower extremities of the patient recovered almost completely. The patient still had saddle anesthesia. After discharge, the patient was followed up in our outpatient clinic at regular intervals. Additionally, she continued her rehabilitation program in different centers and with different approaches. During follow-up, the patient reported that magnetic field therapy had been applied in another center to improve bladder and bowel functions. However, during the second session of the therapy, the patient experienced a burn to the gluteal region and was operated on twice. The patient was followed up with permanent catheterization due to prone positioning in the peri- and postoperative period. The patient was readmitted to the rehabilitation program in our clinic to review the urinary status and wound care. Six months later, she was able to urinate spontaneously, control bowel continence, and walk comfortably. The patient returned to work as well. Despite some improvement in the patient's functional status as a result of the rehabilitation interventions, the patient continued to seek additional treatment modalities to fully recover. The patient wished to return to her former healthy state in terms of sensorimotor, bowel, and bladder functions by applying to different centers. However, complications that occurred during the treatments in these centers hindered her hope and effort for a complete recovery. This difficult process helped the patient to better understand the course of her illness.