A 67-year-old man presented following a fall, with a background of progressive left upper limb weakness over three years and increasing walking difficulty. Over the preceding few months, he had also developed difficulty initiating micturition and a sensation of incomplete bladder emptying. On the day of admission, he experienced a fall at home and was noted to have new-onset left-sided facial droop along with worsening left lower limb weakness. On examination, he had left-sided upper motor neuron facial weakness, mild spasticity in the left upper limb, and bilateral lower limb spasticity, more marked on the left. Power was reduced in the left lower limb, with 4/5 strength distally and pyramidal-pattern weakness proximally of 3/5. Deep tendon reflexes were brisk throughout, and vibration sense was diminished at the halluces bilaterally. Initial blood tests revealed a serum sodium of 137 mmol/L, potassium of 9.8 mmol/L, urea of 57.4 mmol/L, and a creatinine of 721 µmol/L, corresponding to an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 7 mL/min/1.73 m² (Table 1). eGFR: estimated glomerular filtration rate. MRI head rules out acute stroke but shows confluent periventricular and anterior temporal white matter hyperintensities, as well as involvement of the right cerebral peduncle, raising the suspicion of a demyelinating process (Figure 1). A CT scan of the urinary tract demonstrated bilateral severe hydronephrosis and hydroureter, along with a thickened, trabeculated urinary bladder with enlarged prostate suggestive of chronic urinary outflow obstruction. The patient was catheterized urgently, managed with hyperkalemia treatment protocols, and referred to the urology team. MRI whole spine was examined that demonstrated multilevel cervical spondylosis with patchy T2 hyperintensities at C3-C6 and associated canal stenosis but no definitive cord compression at any level (Figure 2). Urology opinion was taken, which advised a prostate-specific antigen test that came back negative, and an outpatient cystoscopy along with outpatient follow-up if symptoms start to improve. Neurology was consulted and advised lumbar puncture and MRI head with contrast and sagittal fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences. Lumber puncture (LP) shows type 3 oligoclonal bands positive (Table 2), and MRI head with contrast and sagittal FLAIR sequences shows multiple septocallosal, deep, and subcortical white matter lesions and one within the right pons. These lesions are highly suspicious for demyelination. There is no abnormal enhancement of any of these lesions (Figure 3). Based on the clinical presentation and imaging findings, a diagnosis of progressive multiple sclerosis was made. The patient was discharged with a long-term catheter in place, and outpatient follow-up was arranged with neurology, urology, and spinal services for further management and multidisciplinary input.