A 55-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, syphilis, and schizophrenia presented with fever, acute confusion, and disorientation. He had sought medical attention at the emergency department (ED) four days prior, reporting myalgias, chills, diaphoresis, neck pain, and back pain. He was diagnosed with influenza and started on Tamiflu. During his most recent ED visit, neurological examination revealed disorientation, an anxious demeanor, delayed speech, impaired memory and concentration, cervical rigidity, and a positive Kernig’s sign. Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis with a white blood cell (WBC) count of 19,000/µL (reference range: 4,000-11,000/µL), microcytic anemia, hyponatremia, elevated brain natriuretic peptide, and an increased lactic acid level of 2.9 mmol/L (reference range: 0.5-2.2 mmol/L). Blood cultures during admission detected S. pneumoniae, for which 2g IV ceftriaxone q 12 hours was initiated. The medical staff attempted to perform a lumbar puncture, but despite their efforts were unable to obtain cerebrospinal fluid for analysis. Treatment with a combination of vancomycin and Zosyn was initiated thereafter. Computed tomography (CT) scans of the head, cervical, and lumbar spine without contrast showed no evidence of infection. An MRI of the lumbar spine with contrast detected a dorsal epidural abscess at L2-L4, L4-L5 right osteomyelitis, and a small right psoas muscle abscess (Figure 1). The patient was diagnosed with an epidural abscess secondary to infective endocarditis and received 2g IV ceftriaxone and 1.75 g IV vancomycin for a therapeutic duration of eight weeks. Further evaluation using a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) revealed an echogenic mass on the posterior leaflet of the mitral valve, accompanied by moderate atrial valve regurgitation (Figure 2). Due to persistent leukocytosis and the presence of an epidural abscess, the patient was transferred to an outside hospital for a laminectomy and washout. Post-surgery, he was discharged home with home health services and continued the remaining course of antibiotics. This case highlights the potential consequence of hematogenous seeding from S. pneumoniae-related infective endocarditis, leading to significant bacteremia and the development of an epidural abscess. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequence T2 with gadolinium contrast of the lumbar spine exhibits a T2 hyperintense rim-enhancing collection in the dorsal epidural space at the L2-L4 level, with a thickness of 8mm. This results in the anterior displacement of the cauda equina nerve roots, accompanied by a partial collapse of the thecal sac. Image displaying a sizable mobile echogenic pedunculated mass is observed on the posterior leaflet of the mitral valve, accompanied by a small vegetation on the aortic valve in the transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE).