A 70-year-old Chinese male with a medical history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, bilateral hearing loss, and bilateral total knee replacements was admitted to the general medicine department via the emergency room following an unwitnessed fall. He reported progressive bilateral weakness in both his upper and lower limbs over the past three months. On neurological examination, he exhibited 5/5 power in all key myotomes of the four limbs, with reduced sensation in the upper limbs distally, likely due to diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Initial treatment with a one-week course of antibiotics was started for a urinary tract infection-based culture and sensitivity and surgery was delayed till clearance of urinary tract infection to reduce the risk of implant infection. On the third day of admission, the patient developed acute urinary retention, necessitating Foley catheter insertion. He was later transferred to the rehabilitation ward and referred to neurology on day six for assessment due to the rapid progression of his peripheral neuropathy. Neurological examination showed reduced power in all four limbs (right side greater than left) and diminished sensation in both upper and lower limbs. Cervical spine X-rays with flexion and extension views revealed decreased vertebral height at multiple levels, mild retrolisthesis of C3 over C4, and anterolisthesis of C4 over C5 (Figure 1). MRI of the entire spine indicated multilevel cervical spondylotic changes, particularly severe at C4/C5 and C5/C6, with significant spinal canal stenosis, increased T2 cord signal, and cord narrowing suggesting possible myelomalacia and there were multilevel spondylotic changes in lumbar spine, with severe stenosis most pronounced at L3/L4 and L4/L5 (Figure 2). Upon review by the spine team, decreased power was noted in C8 myotomes bilaterally, along with reduced sensation in all four limbs (Table 1). Informed surgery consent was taken from the patient and was scheduled for C5 corpectomy and posterior decompression with fusion as an emergency procedure on the 21st post-fall day. On the 13th day of admission, the patient developed hematuria and was started on oral antibiotics for a urinary tract infection, delaying surgery until he fully recovered. A day prior to surgery, further deterioration was noted in upper limb strength (Table 2). On the 20th day, the patient underwent a staged procedure involving C5 corpectomy, insertion of an expandable titanium cage, anterior plating, C4/5 laminectomy, and fixation with C3 to C6 lateral mass screws and rods. No intraoperative complications occurred. Preoperative somatosensory evoked potential showed delayed bilateral latency and low amplitude in the lower limbs and left upper limb, while motor evoked potential responses were intact from C3-C6, with minimal responses in hands and feet. Postoperative somatosensory evoked potential and motor evoked potential findings remained consistent with the baseline. On the first postoperative day, neurological assessment showed improved upper limb strength (5/5 in all key myotomes, except 3/5 for bilateral T1, as shown in Table 3). X-ray of the cervical spine confirmed satisfactory implant positioning (Figure 3). However, on postoperative day 4, the patient experienced an episode of overnight confusion, which resolved by morning. The following day, delirium worsened, accompanied by new-onset right-sided weakness (Table 4). Urgent brain CT and cervical spine MRI were performed. The brain CT showed no acute intracranial hemorrhage or infarct, while MRI of the cervical spine revealed a fluid collection evident on T2 weighted image and no contrast enhancement at the surgical site with possible intradural extension and cord edema from C4-C6 (Figure 4). The patient was referred to general medicine for delirium management, attributed to multifactorial causes, including recent surgery, an unfamiliar hospital environment, and urinary tract infection. Antibiotics were escalated to IV meropenem. MRI/Magnetic Resonance Angiography (MRA) of the brain showed no acute infarction. IV dexamethasone was reintroduced on postoperative day nine for suspected cord reperfusion injury. By postoperative day 13, delirium had resolved, but neurological assessment revealed bilateral foot drop (1/5 power in bilateral L4 and L5 myotomes), although digital rectal examination was normal, with no signs of cauda equina syndrome. A repeat MRI of the cervical spine showed a slight reduction in the size of the fluid collection at the surgical site, with no evidence of intradural extension or abnormal cord edema (Figure 5). IV dexamethasone was tapered off on postoperative day 14, and a family conference was held to discuss the newly developed bilateral foot drop, likely due to aggravation of lumbar stenosis and listhesis symptoms after cervical spine decompression. The patient and family opted for surgery. For the second surgery informed consent was again taken from the patient. On postoperative day 16 of cervical spine surgery, the patient underwent L3/4 and L4/5 transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) with no intraoperative complications. Intraoperative somatosensory evoked potential and motor evoked potential remained consistent with baseline findings. Postoperatively, the patient was transferred to the general ward, but redeveloped delirium on the first postoperative day. Delirium workup was initiated, and treatment was provided per the general medicine team’s guidance. Over two weeks, the delirium resolved, and rehabilitation commenced. The patient was ultimately discharged to a nursing home per rehabilitation team recommendations. At discharge, the power was 2/5 in bilateral L4 and L5 myotomes (Table 5). Postoperative X-ray lumbar spine and the report showed posterior spinal instrumentation is noted from L3-L5 levels. There was grade 1-2 anterolisthesis at the L4-5 level, with slight retrolisthesis at L2-3. Likely chronic anterior wedging of the L1 body. Multilevel degenerative endplate osteophytes and facetal arthropathies are seen. Disc spaces appear reduced at T12-L1 and L4-5 levels as shown in Figure 6.