We present a case of a 67-year-old black woman with a history of rheumatoid arthritis overlapping with Sjögren's syndrome diagnosed 20 years prior, along with heart failure, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, and Hodgkin lymphoma treated in 1995, without recurrence. She was on chronic medication with 5 mg of prednisolone. The patient presented to the outpatient clinic at the beginning of February with complaints of progressive lower back pain radiating to the lower limbs, which had worsened over the previous three to four months, requiring multiple emergency department (ED) visits due to uncontrolled pain at home. Since January, the patient reported perianal sensory loss, progressing to thigh involvement. In early February, she experienced a single episode of fecal incontinence, accompanied by difficulty in local muscle contraction. Subsequently, her pain extended to the left hemithorax, with associated lower limb weakness, gait instability, and difficulty maintaining an upright position. Given these symptoms, she was referred to the ED and admitted for further investigation. On examination, she exhibited grade 4 paraparesis, predominantly proximal, with impaired thigh flexion. Osteotendinous reflexes were absent and Babinski sign was present. While vibratory sensation was preserved, she demonstrated reduced pain and temperature sensation at the T6-T11 dermatomes on the left side, allodynia along the lateral aspect of the leg, and bilateral hypoesthesia along the S1 level of both feet. Laboratory tests only showed slightly elevated liver enzymes (Table 1). This clinical presentation suggested a subacute or chronic myelitis or radiculitis. A spinal computed tomography (CT) scan ruled out a compressive lesion. An urgent MRI was performed which also showed meningeal thickening resembling a sleeve, with abnormal enhancement post-contrast, and diffuse thickening of the cauda equina nerve roots, suggesting multifocal meningeal, medullary, and radicular involvement (Figures 1A, 1B). The differential diagnoses included tuberculosis, lymphoma, and autoimmune etiologies (considering the patient’s known autoimmune diseases or another, such as sarcoidosis). There was no intracranial involvement. The images (A) cervicodorsal region and (B) thoracolumbar region show a T2 hyperintense signal extending from T4 to the conus medullaris, predominantly central in distribution (indicated by arrows with greater intensity). A lumbar puncture revealed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis with a predominance of mononuclear cells, marked hypoglycorrhachia (19% of glycemia), and elevated protein levels. Cytology was consistent with lymphocytic meningitis, and immunophenotyping excluded monoclonality, ruling out lymphoma. Direct tests on CSF (for fungi, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and bacteria) were negative, as were cultures from blood and CSF. PCR testing for Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA was negative (mycobacterial cultures as well). Extensive serological testing in both peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was negative for Brucella, Leptospira, Mycoplasma, Epstein-Barr virus, Cytomegalovirus, and Coxsackie virus. Sarcoidosis was deemed unlikely due to normal angiotensin-converting enzyme levels, normal calcium levels, and unremarkable findings on thoracic CT. Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) were positive at a titer of 1:160 with a fine granular pattern, though ANA was negative in the CSF. Complement levels were normal. Anti-SSA and anti-SSB antibodies were negative, as were tests for ANCA, lupus anticoagulant, β2-glycoprotein, anti-cardiolipin, and anti-aquaporin 4. A follow-up MRI showed similar meningeal enhancement and new medullary lesions. Given the chronic meningomyeloradiculitis without an identified etiology despite extensive investigation, the case was evaluated by neurosurgery for a meningeal biopsy, which was performed at the beginning of April, without complications. The biopsy revealed a non-specific, sparse mononuclear inflammatory process. Following the biopsy, the patient was started on intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/day for three days). The patient underwent five cycles of cyclophosphamide and was discharged. Pain management and physiotherapy were implemented during the hospitalization, leading to improvements in walking ability. At discharge, the patient showed the following signs: paraparesis (muscle strength grade 4 in thigh flexion bilaterally, grade 5 distally in the right lower limb, and grade 4+ distally in the left lower limb); the patellar deep tendon reflex was absent on the left and diminished on the right; distal hyperesthesia in the lower limbs extending up to the knees; a suspended level of mild hypoesthesia to thermal and pain sensation from T5 to T11 on the right and T6 to T11 on the left, with a saddle-shaped area of hypoesthesia; plantar reflexes were absent. Gait was possible with bilateral support. On follow-up as an out-patient, the MRI was repeated in August and no other abnormal enhancements were identified, including intramedullary or leptomeningeal, only showing evidence of residual changes due to the meningeal biopsy (Figures 2A, 2B). The patient recovered full mobility with continued physical therapy. The images (A) cervicodorsal region and (B) thoracolumbar region demonstrate residual signal enhancement at the site of the bilateral laminectomy defect at the T9 level (arrow), consistent with chronic changes. No additional abnormalities are noted.