A 56-year-old male plumber presented with low back pain and bilateral numbness in the lower extremities. Symptoms began one year ago with spontaneous pain in the right anterior lower leg with gait, which spread to the left leg one month ago. He reported intermittent claudication at 500 m. Neurological examination was largely normal without muscle weakness, but the right femoral nerve stretch test was positive. Visual analog scale (VAS) scores were 1.5 for back pain, 3.8 for leg pain, and 3.2 for numbness; the Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) score for low back pain was 15/29. Radiographic examination revealed Meyerding grade 1 spondylolytic spondylolisthesis at L4 on lateral radiographs (Figure 1). Dynamic radiographs showed hypermobility at L4 pars with increased L4 slippage on flexion and "kissing" spinous processes at L3-L4 on extension. MRI showed T1-low and T2-high signal changes in the L3-L4 interspinous space along with an intraspinal cyst (Figure 2). CT revealed spondylolysis both at L4 with spondylolisthesis and at L5 with minimal slippage. Additionally, the scan showed evidence of bony sclerosis and erosion between the L3 and L4 spinous processes (Figure 3). These findings led to the diagnosis of Baastrup's disease with associated extradural cyst, L4 spondylolisthesis, and L5 spondylolysis. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient, and the institutional review board of Osaka City Juso Hospital approved this study (approved number: 2024-A6). Plain radiographs demonstrate the presence of spondylolytic spondylolisthesis at L4 on an anteroposterior (A) and lateral (B) view. Dynamic radiographs illustrate hypermobility at L4 pars on flexion (C; white arrow) and the phenomenon of "kissing" spinous processes at L3-L4 on extension (D; black arrow). Magnetic resonance imaging on T1 sagittal view shows the presence of a low intensity area (A; white arrow). Those on T2 sagittal and axial views show a high intensity area (B, C) within the L3-L4 interspinous space, accompanied by the development of an intraspinal cyst. The T2 axial view at L3-L4 disc level shows a central canal stenosis due to the cyst (D). A computed tomography scan reveals the presence of spondylolysis both at L4 with spondylolisthesis and at L5 with minimal slippage (A-C; from the right parasagittal to the left parasagittal view, D, E; L4 and L5 axial view, respectively. The white arrows indicate spondylosis.). Additionally, the scan demonstrated evidence of bony sclerosis and erosion between the L3 and L4 spinous processes (B; black arrow). Surgery We performed L4-L5 PLIF with cyst resection and direct repair of the pars at L5. The L3-L4 interspinous ligament was already torn, leaving only a remnant, with a serous effusion in the same area (Figure 4). The lumbar spondylolysis at L4 was contiguous with a cyst lasting from the interspinous to the epidural space. After the paraspinal muscles were dissected, the L4 lamina was unstable enough to move with the beating of the dura mater. Following this, the decision was taken to remove the L4 lamina, which resulted in the removal of the ligamentum flavum along with the cyst. The next step was PLIF with the cages after insertion of pedicle screws and rods between L4 and L5 (Stryker, Kalamazoo, MI). Finally, the L5 pars defect was repaired with the lamina hook system following decortication around the pars. Onlay grafting of morselized bone was performed. An angled open connector and another rod were used to lightly connect the PLIF construct to the lamina hook; compression was applied between the L4 and L5 pedicle screws and between the connectors and hooks, respectively, to complete the process (Figure 5). (A) Figure after dissection of paraspinal muscles and insertion of pedicle screws; the interspinous ligament of L3-L4 had already been torn, and the serous fluid that had accumulated in the same area was aspirated. The interspinous area, the epidural cyst, and the L4 spondylolysis (white arrow) are in communication with each other. (B) Figure after the resection of the L4 lamina; the cyst in the L3-L4 intervertebral space, following serous aspiration, was observed ventral to the ligamentum flavum (white circle). (C) The cyst was excised along with the ligamentum flavum. Plain radiographs demonstrate the connection of the constructs to the posterior interbody fusion at L4-L5 with the direct repair of the L5 pars using lamina hooks on both the anteroposterior (A) and lateral (B) views. The components are interconnected using angled open connectors and additional rods (C). Histopathology Macroscopic photographs showed the cyst wall adhering to the ventral side of the ligamentum flavum. However, the border between the ligamentum flavum and the cyst wall was clear. Microphotographs showed the cyst wall covered by synovial surface cells; a finding consistent with a synovial cyst (Figure 6). Macroscopic photographs illustrate the cyst wall (white arrow) adhering to the ventral side of the ligamentum flavum (A). Microphotographs, stained with hematoxylin and eosin (B; low power field, C; high power field) and Elastica van Gieson (D), demonstrate the cyst wall covered by synovial surface cells. Post-operative course The patient's neurological symptoms and intermittent claudication improved immediately after surgery, and he was discharged on the 12th day. No recurrence of lower back symptoms occurred, and the VAS score for low back and leg pain was 0 both at one and two years. The JOA score for low back pain was 28/29 at two years. Dynamic X-ray revealed that there was bony fusion on the interbody at L4-L5, while maintaining mobility at L5-S1 (Figure 7). In addition, CT revealed that bony fusion has achieved the posterior part of the pars of L5. Dynamic radiographs show no angular motion in flexion (A) and extension (B) at L4-L5, with motion preserved at L5-S1 and interbody bony fusion achieved exclusively at L4-L5.