The patient was a 17-year-old East Asian female. Before the operation, the major lumbar curve was 32.2° and the lumbosacral curve was 18.5°, with the Risser sign at grade 4. The procedure was performed using the Wiltse approach. The extent of fixation was from the cephalic horizontal vertebra to sacrum. The scoliosis was corrected by the unequal length of the spacers on the concave/convex side. We obtained a good correction of scoliosis, which was maintained during the 5-year follow-up. We also observed less intraoperative blood loss, faster postoperative recovery, and more motion preservation. The patient was a 17-year-old East Asian female, with a height of 162 cm and a weight of 51 kg. She had no relevant diseases, and there was no history of scoliosis in her family. She was diagnosed with AIS Lenke type 5C, with the major lumbar curve measuring 27.6° (Fig. 2a), 1 year prior to admission. The doctor recommended observation, chin-ups, and core muscle strength training, but no improvement was perceived. Therefore, the patient and her parents visited the doctor again and sought other treatment methods. On admission, the patient had recurring episodes of low back pain without neurological symptoms. She presented with asymmetry in the bilateral back and a prominence on the left side when bending forward (Fig. 7a). Therefore, the patient suffered from psychological stress due to the deformity. The anteroposterior X-ray of the entire spine showed the major lumbar curve was 32.2°, and the lumbosacral curve was 18.5° (Fig. 2b). On the alleviated bending X-ray, the lumbar curve was 15.1°, and the lumbosacral curve measured 4.6° (Fig. 3). The Nash–Moe rotation classification of the apical vertebra was grade II, while the Risser sign was grade 4. The lumbar lordosis angle was 41.6°.Fig. 2X-ray of the entire spine of a 17-year-old female showed Lenke 5C idiopathic scoliosis; a 1 year pre-admission; b, c on admissionFig. 3The right lateral bending X-ray showed that the lumbosacral curvature was 15.1° (a), and the left lateral bending X-ray showed that the lumbar curvature was 4.6° (b). The flexibility of the main lumbar curvature was 85.7% X-ray of the entire spine of a 17-year-old female showed Lenke 5C idiopathic scoliosis; a 1 year pre-admission; b, c on admission The right lateral bending X-ray showed that the lumbosacral curvature was 15.1° (a), and the left lateral bending X-ray showed that the lumbar curvature was 4.6° (b). The flexibility of the main lumbar curvature was 85.7% Prior to the surgery, informed consent was obtained from the patient and her parents, and ethical approval was granted by the Hospital’s Ethics Committee. The patient underwent surgery on 19 June 2019. During the procedure, the patient was placed in the prone position under general anesthesia. We performed surgical correction through the Wiltse approach with posterior median skin incision. After incising the skin and subcutaneous tissue, an incision was made in the lumbar dorsal fascia approximately 3 cm lateral to the spinous process. Subsequently, the multifidus muscle and the longissimus muscle were bluntly dissected to expose the screw entry point of pedicle screws. The entry point was located at the junction of the lateral border of the superior articular process and the base of the transverse process. The range of internal fixation ranged from the cephalic horizontal vertebrae to sacrum. Then the patient’s position was modified to obtain the appropriate lumbar lordosis. The polycarbonate urethane spacers were cut according to the measured distance between the pedicle screws (longer than measured on the concave side and shorter on the convex side). The spacers were then inserted together with the polyester cords between the screws. Finally the system was tightened under correct compression. Two drainage tubes were placed inside the incision. Then the wound was copiously irrigated before being closed in layers. The duration of the surgery was 192 minutes, and the intraoperative blood loss was 200 mL. The patient was allowed to get up 2 days after surgery when the drainage tubes were removed. She was discharged 6 days after surgery, whereas a stiffer waist support was prescribed for 3 weeks. After the surgery, the low back pain was significantly relieved. We also achieved a satisfactory correction of the scoliosis. The Cobb angle of the lumbar major curve was 3.6° (correction rate 88.5%) and that of the lumbosacral curve was 0.4° postoperatively. The lumbar lordosis angle was 43.2° (Fig. 4). At 6 months after surgery, a halo sign appeared around the right screw at S1. At 1 year postoperatively, the tip of the right screw at S1 fractured. At 3 years after surgery, the left screw at S1 fractured. At 4 years after surgery, the Cobb angle of the lumbar curve was 6.1°, and the lumbosacral curve was 0.9°. Adequate correction was preserved (Fig. 5). The lumbar lordosis angle was 32.4°, the sagittal range of motion was 15.3°, and the coronal range of motion was 7.6° (Fig. 6). Although a Halo sign appeared around the bilateral S1 screws and they subsequently fractured, there was no obvious loss of correction. There were also no symptoms of low back pain, and the patient’s daily life and studies were not affected (Fig. 8). At the most recent follow-up (over 5 years postoperatively), the prominence in the patient’s left lumbodorsal region was improved when bending forward (Figs. 7b, 8).Fig. 4After surgery, the X-ray showed that the lumbar curvature was 3.6°, and the lumbosacral curvature was 0.4°Fig. 5The halo sign appeared around the S1 screw 6 months postoperatively (a); at 1.5 years after the operation, the right screw at S1 was fractured (b); 3 years after the operation, both screws at S1 were fractured (c); 4 years after the operation, there was no significant progression of scoliosis (d)Fig. 6The sagittal range of motion was 15.3° (a, b), and the coronal range of motion was 7.6° (c, d) 4 years after the operationFig. 7The prominence in the patient’s left lumbodorsal region was improved when bending forward; a pre-surgery; b over 5 years post-surgeryFig. 8Case timeline After surgery, the X-ray showed that the lumbar curvature was 3.6°, and the lumbosacral curvature was 0.4° The halo sign appeared around the S1 screw 6 months postoperatively (a); at 1.5 years after the operation, the right screw at S1 was fractured (b); 3 years after the operation, both screws at S1 were fractured (c); 4 years after the operation, there was no significant progression of scoliosis (d) The sagittal range of motion was 15.3° (a, b), and the coronal range of motion was 7.6° (c, d) 4 years after the operation The prominence in the patient’s left lumbodorsal region was improved when bending forward; a pre-surgery; b over 5 years post-surgery Case timeline