A 12-year-old boy, previously diagnosed with neuromyelitis optica at another hospital and initially responsive to intravenous methylprednisolone, returned with relapsed vision loss and neck and back pain. At Shenzhen Children’s Hospital, an ophthalmological examination showed bilateral papilledema with poorly defined margins. Due to his neurological symptoms, a consultation was conducted, revealing several positive signs. A lumbar puncture indicated elevated cerebrospinal fluid pressure and protein levels. A subsequent spinal MRI identified a space-occupying lesion in the spinal column. The patient underwent neurosurgical intervention to remove the intradural lesion, and the pathology confirmed a WHO Grade 2 myxopapillary ependymoma. Postoperatively, his right eye vision improved to 20/40, and his left eye vision to 20/20, resolving his diplopia and restoring normal muscle strength and tone in all limbs. However, a tumor recurrence 3 months later necessitated a second surgery. A 12-year-old boy presenting with decreased visual acuity, neck, and back pain was previously diagnosed with optic neuromyelitis at another hospital. He received treatment with intravenous methylprednisolone and was discharged upon improvement of his visual symptoms. However, experiencing a deterioration in visual acuity and neck pain, he sought further medical attention at Shenzhen Children’s Hospital shortly after his discharge. The ophthalmological examination revealed that the right eye had a visual acuity of 20/60, while the left eye had a visual acuity of 20/25. Both pupils exhibited sluggish direct light reflexes. The optic papillae in both eyes showed congested hemorrhages with unclear borders, and a retinitis pigmentation disorder in the macular area (Figure 1A, 1B). Optical coherence tomography (OCT) displayed bilateral papilledema, superficial detachment of the nerve fiber layer from the pigment epithelium in the macular region of both eyes, and subretinal fluid (Figure 1C, 1D). Visual Evoked Potentials (VEP) indicated prolonged P100 latency and decreased amplitude in both eyes. Cerebrospinal fluid antibodies were negative. The clinical diagnosis was bilateral papilledema with further etiological investigation required, leading to a referral to neurology. The neurological examination revealed various abnormalities including neck tonus, bilateral vertical nystagmus, reduced muscle strength in the distal right lower limb, nociceptive hypersensitivity in the right lower limb, absence of abdominal reflexes, unelicited knee jerks and Achilles tendon reflexes, a positive right Babinski sign, as well as positive Kerning and Brudzinski signs. Lumbar puncture measured the cerebrospinal fluid pressure at 240 mmH2O (normal range: 80–180 mmH2O), indicating increased intracranial pressure. Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid showed protein of 157 mg/dL (normal <50 mg/dL). Cranial, orbital, full-spine MRI, and contrast-enhanced lumbar spine MRI revealed bilateral optic nerve edema (Figure 2A, 2B), spinal cord flattening, likely due to elevated intracranial pressure, no hydrocephalus was detected (Figure 2A), and an intradural lesion in the lumbar region, likely neoplastic in nature (Figure 2C–2E). The patient was referred to the neurosurgery department for further intervention, undergoing surgical re-section of the intradural lesion (Figure 3A, 3B). The pathology report identified the tumor as myxopapillary ependymoma WHO Grade 2 (Figure 3C). Upon discharge, the child’s right eye vision improved to 20/40, left eye vision to 20/20, with reported visual field enhancement and alleviation of diplopia symptoms, alongside restoration of normal muscle strength and tone in all limbs. Three months after surgery, a follow-up spinal MRI revealed a lesion in the sacral spine, indicating tumor recurrence (Figure 4A, 4B). Subsequently, the child underwent a second resection of the spinal lesion, with the pathological diagnosis remaining as myxopapillary ependymoma (Figure 4C). After the second surgery, the patient did not follow up with the neurology or ophthalmology department as requested, and we lost contact for further follow-up.