Two case reports are presented, one involving a 70-year-old male post-laminectomy and discectomy, and another a 36-year-old female post-cesarean section with spinal anesthesia. Both developed bilateral SDH associated with CSF leaks and underwent surgical intervention. Both patients showed significant improvement following emergency subdural hematoma evacuation, with complete resolution of IH symptoms and recovery of neurological function. A 70-year-old retired automechanic, known hypertensive and ischemic heart disease on medications, presented with long-standing lower back pain radiating to both legs, which had worsened over time, causing difficulty standing and walking. He also experienced transient numbness in both legs. Clinical evaluation and lumbar spine imaging revealed lumbar canal stenosis at the L4/L5 level, with narrowing of the spinal canal and nerve root compression. As his symptoms did not improve with conservative treatments such as analgesics and physiotherapy, surgery was considered due to the severity of his condition. The patient was hemodynamically stable preoperatively, with normal vital signs and unremarkable laboratory results. Neurological examination revealed reduced sensation and strength in both lower extremities, consistent with L4/L5 nerve root compression. He was assessed as surgically fit. The patient underwent a laminectomy and discectomy at the L4/L5 level to relieve spinal compression. During surgery, a dural tear was encountered and promptly repaired to prevent CSF leakage. However, despite the successful repair, the patient developed a postoperative CSF leak, likely due to minor dural disruption during the procedure or postoperative tissue breakdown. The patient had an uncomplicated immediate postoperative recovery following dural closure with hemostasis and placement of a surgical drain. Early mobilization was achieved without incident, and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 3. However, at the 2-week follow-up, he presented with persistent headaches, and an axial non-contrast CT brain showed bilateral frontoparietal subdural hygromas as hypodense crescentic collections causing mild cortical compression without significant midline shift, consistent with postoperative CSF accumulation (Fig. 1). By week 4, a cystic swelling was noted over the surgical site, consistent with a localized CSF collection and was managed conservatively. At 11 weeks postoperatively, the patient developed progressively worsening generalized headaches, accompanied by drowsiness and gait instability, clinical features suggestive of raised intracranial pressure (ICP) secondary to a disturbance in CSF dynamics. Figure 1.Axial non-contrast CT scan of the brain obtained two weeks postoperatively demonstrating bilateral frontoparietal subdural hygromas, appearing as hypodense, crescentic extra-axial fluid collections along both cerebral hemispheres. The collections cause mild cortical compression without significant midline shift or mass effect, consistent with postoperative cerebrospinal fluid accumulation rather than recurrent hemorrhage. Axial non-contrast CT scan of the brain obtained two weeks postoperatively demonstrating bilateral frontoparietal subdural hygromas, appearing as hypodense, crescentic extra-axial fluid collections along both cerebral hemispheres. The collections cause mild cortical compression without significant midline shift or mass effect, consistent with postoperative cerebrospinal fluid accumulation rather than recurrent hemorrhage. CT scan of the brain demonstrated bilateral acute-on-chronic SDHs with mild cortical and ventricular compression, more pronounced on the right, without herniation (Fig. 2). Given the prior presence of bilateral hygromas and evidence of ongoing CSF leakage (surgical-site CSF collection) and postural headaches, the SDHs were interpreted as having evolved from the earlier hygromas as part of a continuous pathophysiological process related to persistent IH. Figure 2.Axial non-contrast CT brain demonstrating bilateral subdural hematomas of mixed density, hyperdense acute components overlying hypodense chronic areas, suggestive of acute-on-chronic subdural hemorrhage. The collections cause effacement of cortical sulci and mild compression of the lateral ventricles, more pronounced on the right, without signs of transtentorial herniation. Axial non-contrast CT brain demonstrating bilateral subdural hematomas of mixed density, hyperdense acute components overlying hypodense chronic areas, suggestive of acute-on-chronic subdural hemorrhage. The collections cause effacement of cortical sulci and mild compression of the lateral ventricles, more pronounced on the right, without signs of transtentorial herniation. The patient underwent emergency evacuation of a subdural hematoma via bilateral frontoparietal burr holes, with approximately 80 mL of fluid evacuated from each side. The procedure effectively reduced ICP and resulted in improved neurological function. Postoperatively, the patient was closely monitored for ICP, fluid balance, and signs of CSF leakage. Recovery was uneventful, and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 3. Neurological function returned to baseline, with full restoration of motor and sensory function in the lower extremities. Symptoms of IH, such as headache, completely resolved. Postoperative axial CT brain showed near-complete resolution of subdural collections with re-expansion of cortical sulci, normalized ventricles, and no residual mass effect or hemorrhage (Fig. 3). Close follow-up over the next 6 months was unremarkable, with no recurrence of CSF leakage or subdural hematoma. Figure 3.Postoperative axial CT brain showing near-complete resolution of the previously noted subdural collections, with re-expansion of the cortical sulci and normalization of ventricular size. There is no evidence of acute hemorrhage, midline shift, or residual mass effect, indicating favorable postoperative evolution following decompression. Postoperative axial CT brain showing near-complete resolution of the previously noted subdural collections, with re-expansion of the cortical sulci and normalization of ventricular size. There is no evidence of acute hemorrhage, midline shift, or residual mass effect, indicating favorable postoperative evolution following decompression. A 36-year-old female, para 2, living 2, with a history of cesarean section (breech presentation) under spinal anesthesia, where she delivered a healthy male baby at 38 weeks’ gestation. The patient began experiencing headaches on postoperative day 2. The headache progressively worsened in intensity and was associated with episodes of vomiting, prompting readmission. The initial clinical impression was that of a PDPH, for which the patient was managed conservatively with analgesics, hydration, and reassurance, then subsequently discharged. An epidural blood patch (EBP) was not performed as a part of management of patient symptoms. This decision was guided by the patient’s preference to avoid further invasive procedures and the absence of significant neurological deficits at the initial presentation. The patient was closely monitored, and supportive care continued; however, the headache persisted and intensified over time. She received injections of tramadol and diclofenac for symptom relief for 4 weeks, but the pain became increasingly severe and accompanied by recurrent vomiting episodes and emerging signs of confusion which raised suspicion for a more serious intracranial pathology where she was readmitted as her neurological status declined, and she started presenting with agitation and alterated mental status. Diagnostic imaging with non-contrasted CT brain showed bilateral subacute SDHs, larger on the left, causing 14.7 mm midline shift, left uncal herniation, hydrocephalus, and generalized cerebral edema, likely secondary to the prolonged CSF leak and subsequent low ICP caused by the dural puncture (Fig. 4). Figure 4.Axial brain CT demonstrating bilateral subacute subdural hematomas, more prominent on the left over the temporal, frontal, and parietal lobes, causing midline shift of approximately 14.7 mm with subfalcine herniation. The right-sided collection overlies the parietal and occipital lobes. Left uncal herniation with compression of the thalamus and midbrain is evident, resulting in hydrocephalus. Generalized cerebral edema is also noted, with effacement of the supratentorial sulci. Axial brain CT demonstrating bilateral subacute subdural hematomas, more prominent on the left over the temporal, frontal, and parietal lobes, causing midline shift of approximately 14.7 mm with subfalcine herniation. The right-sided collection overlies the parietal and occipital lobes. Left uncal herniation with compression of the thalamus and midbrain is evident, resulting in hydrocephalus. Generalized cerebral edema is also noted, with effacement of the supratentorial sulci. Given the neurological deterioration and the presence of bilateral SDHs, the patient underwent emergency bilateral burr hole craniostomies with evacuation of the hematomas about total of 120 mL and insertion of porta vac drainage inserted to subgaleal to manage any residual collection and prevent reaccumulation of blood. The procedure was successful, and the patient was closely monitored in the intensive care unit (ICU) postoperatively. Postoperatively, the patient showed rapid progress, experiencing significant headache relief within hours of the surgery. Her vomiting and confusion resolved as the ICP returned to normal. Postoperative axial CT brain showed marked improvement with residual right subdural collection and pneumocephalus (Fig. 5A). She was closely monitored in the ICU for potential complications like rebleeding or infection. After a 4-day stay, her condition steadily improved, and she was discharged with instructions for follow-up care. The patient was advised to gradually resume regular activities, with scheduled outpatient visits to monitor for any late complications, including recurrence of CSF leakage or issues related to SDHs. A follow-up CT scan (Fig. 5B) showed notable improvement, and her 5-month postoperative checkups were unremarkable. Figure 5.(A) Postoperative CT brain following bilateral burr hole evacuation showing marked reduction in mass effect, cerebral edema, and midline shift with residual right subdural collection and postoperative pneumocephalus, more pronounced on the left frontal region, are noted. (B) Essentially normal CT head with complete resolution of bilateral subdural hematomas at 5-month follow-up. (A) Postoperative CT brain following bilateral burr hole evacuation showing marked reduction in mass effect, cerebral edema, and midline shift with residual right subdural collection and postoperative pneumocephalus, more pronounced on the left frontal region, are noted. (B) Essentially normal CT head with complete resolution of bilateral subdural hematomas at 5-month follow-up.