A 67-year-old man with a history of lumbar fusion, T10-11 and T11-12 left hemilaminectomies, and dorsal column stimulator paddle lead placement presented for progressive lower extremity pain and motor weakness. MRI of the lumbar spine demonstrated L3-4 degenerative disk disease and adjacent segment disease with central stenosis. Given the patient’s history of multiple prior posterior surgeries, including hemilaminectomies and dorsal column stimulator placement, an anterior or lateral approach was preferred to minimize disruption of scarred posterior elements. Extreme lateral interbody fusion (XLIF) was selected for its ability to achieve adequate decompression and alignment correction through a minimally invasive lateral corridor. The patient was taken to the operating room (OR) for L3-4 lateral interbody fusion with a plate. Patient positioning The patient was then positioned in the right lateral decubitus. All extremities were carefully padded, an axillary roll was placed, and pillows were positioned between the arms and knees. Tape was run from the pelvis to the foot of the bed, around the foot of the bed, and back up to the pelvis. Additional tape was run from the pelvis to the foot of the bed, and the table was broken at the lumbar region to laterally flex the spine to optimize the anticipated retroperitoneal approach as illustrated in Figure 1. Patient in right lateral decubitus position on table with adhesive tape providing traction on the lower extremities (A) and pelvis (B) and the table “broken” in the lumbar region to introduce lateral flexion, optimizing the XLIF surgical corridor. XLIF: Extreme lateral interbody fusion Initial approach To facilitate safe access to the retroperitoneal space while protecting the peritoneum, an oblique incision was made at the primary surgical site for direct dissection, followed by a second posteriorly located incision to allow for tactile guidance and displacement of the peritoneum during the lateral approach. Following incision of the skin, dissection through the subcutaneous tissues was performed and Weitlaner retractors were placed in the incision site to aid in dissection. Lateral entrance of the retroperitoneal space was achieved through careful dissection and palpation of the internal oblique and transversus abdominis layers by placing the surgeon’s finger in the second posterior incision. These muscle layers were transversed while concurrently using a finger to sweep away any at risk peritoneum. Upon completion of dissection, palpation of the iliopsoas muscle and the transverse process of the vertebral body was achieved. Discectomy and interbody fusion Having completed dissection, a small tubular retractor was advanced from the lateral incision to the surface of the iliopsoas muscle over the L3-4 disk space. After positioning was verified with fluoroscopy, the tubular retractor was advanced through the iliopsoas muscle with neuromonitoring. Visualization was achieved using an endoscope. A retractor was placed and soft tissue was cleared from the lateral edge of the disc and the annulus was excised (Figure 2A). Discectomy, autograft harvesting, and placement of an intervertebral spacer were completed under endoscopic visualization (Figures 2B-2D). Proper placement of the cage and alignment were verified using intraoperative fluoroscopy (Figure 3). Endoscopic view (A) discectomy, (B) placement of the interbody spacer, (C) screw placement, and (D) final interbody space positioning. Postoperative lateral lumbar x-ray demonstrating final placement of L3-4 interbody spacer. Outcome The estimated blood loss was approximately 25 mL, and the total operative time was 97 minutes. The patient experienced an uncomplicated postoperative course with preserved neurologic function and no immediate complications. He was discharged on postoperative day two with oral analgesics which were tapered over a month course. The patient was followed for six months and reported improvement in pain control.