A 60-year-old male farmer presented with persistent lumbosacral back pain and progressive bilateral lower limb claudication. His past medical history includes percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) four years prior to presentation for circumflex artery stenosis. He also had several cardiovascular risk factors, such as an extensive smoking history of 42 pack-years, high alcohol consumption, and dyslipidemia. His symptoms began after walking approximately 50 meters and were described as lower back pain associated with numbness and a burning, aching pain down the bilateral gluteal regions, thighs, and legs when standing. These symptoms worsened markedly with ambulation. He reported temporary relief when sitting or squatting. Analgesics, namely paracetamol and celecoxib, provided minimal relief, and his symptoms were so severe that he had to discontinue his farming activities. On examination, distal pulses were weak or absent bilaterally. The right femoral pulse was very faint, and the left femoral pulse was normal. Bilateral popliteal pulses and posterior tibialis pulses were faint. Bilateral dorsalis pedis pulses were absent. Neurological examination revealed no focal deficits. Due to lack of response to conservative measures over a period of several months, he underwent an MRI of the lumbar spine, which revealed a synovial cyst arising from the right L4-L5 facet joint, causing significant compression of the thecal sac resulting in central canal stenosis (Figure 1). Additionally, CT angiogram of the lower limb vasculature revealed bilateral multi-level critical stenoses of the femoral arteries (Figure 2). (A) Sagittal view of the lumbosacral region demonstrating a lumbar facet joint synovial cyst measuring 4.1 x 4.3 x 6.5 mm (red arrow) within the spinal canal. (B) Axial view of the lumbar region at L4/L5 vertebral level demonstrating the cyst (red arrow) lying anteromedially to the degenerated right L4/L5 facet joint, causing severe spinal canal stenosis and exit foraminal stenosis. (A) First oblique view of CT angiogram showing stenosis in the right CFA (a), ostium of right SFA (b), proximal right SFA (c), mid-distal right SFA (d), and mid-distal left SFA (e). (B) Second oblique view of CT angiogram showing stenosis in the right CFA (a), mid-distal right SFA (b), proximal left SFA (c), and mid-distal left SFA (d). CFA: common femoral artery; SFA: superficial femoral artery A CT-guided percutaneous injection of the lumbar facet joint synovial cyst (Figure 3) with contrast, then subsequently with corticosteroid and local anaesthetic, resulted in partial symptom relief, specifically the burning and heaviness sensation in the lower back and gluteal region that occurred with standing. However, his exertional, distance-limited claudication did not resolve with the spinal intervention; instead, it persisted, with symptoms worsening in the right lower limb. (A) A spinal needle (red arrow) is inserted into the right L4/L5 facet joint and contrast is injected through the right L4/L5 facet joint. (B) The contrast fills the cyst and causes its rupture (white arrow). Weeks later, the patient underwent sequential percutaneous transluminal angioplasties to address the critical bilateral lower limb stenoses. The first procedure targeted the right common and superficial femoral artery (Figures 4-6). This improved flow in these arteries, thus improving his walking distance marginally and completely resolving the ipsilateral calf claudication. A second angioplasty was then performed on the left superficial femoral artery (Figures 7-8). This finally fully resolved his claudication symptoms. Post procedure, he reported full resolution of symptoms and was able to ambulate over 500 meters without discomfort. At the three-month follow-up, he remained asymptomatic and had resumed his farming activities. (A) Severe stenosis of the right CFA (indicated by the red arrow) before PTA. (B) Increase in vessel calibre of the right CFA (indicated by the white arrow) post PTA. DSA: digital subtraction angiography; CFA: common femoral artery; PTA: percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (A) Diffuse disease of the mid and distal right SFA (red arrows) before PTA. (B) Increase in vessel calibre of the mid and distal right SFA (white arrows) post PTA. DSA: digital subtraction angiography; SFA: superficial femoral artery; PTA: percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (A) Severe ostial stenosis of the right SFA and severe stenosis of the mid-right SFA are indicated by red arrows, a complex ulcerated plaque is indicated by a green arrow. (B) The affected stenosed segments were successfully treated by PTA (white arrows). DSA: digital subtraction angiography; SFA: superficial femoral artery; PTA: percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (A) Severe stenosis of the proximal left SFA and mid-left SFA (red arrows) before PTA. (B) The regions of stenosis were successfully treated by PTA (white arrows). DSA: digital subtraction angiography; SFA: superficial femoral artery; PTA: percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (A) Severe stenosis of the mid to distal left SFA (red arrows) before PTA. (B) The regions of stenosis were successfully treated (white arrows) post PTA. DSA: digital subtraction angiography; SFA: superficial femoral artery; PTA: percutaneous transluminal angioplasty