A 68-year-old woman with a history of cervicalgia, chronic lumbar back pain with nerve impingement at C6 to C7 and L4 to L5, and degenerative disc disease at T11 to T12 presented to the clinic to establish care. In addition, she had a history of chronic back pain due to a traumatic event that caused an injury to her spine in 2004. Pain management for the past year included acetaminophen and ibuprofen. Further recommendations for pain control included baclofen and diclofenac. Her chronic back pain continued despite these medication changes, leading to an accidental overdose from baclofen ingestion. A year later, the patient presented to the emergency room for right lower quadrant abdominal pain that radiated to her lower back. After ruling out acute, life-threatening abdominal pathology, she was discharged on prednisone, acetaminophen, and cyclobenzaprine for her back pain. She returned to the emergency room the following day because of continued lower back pain. She was prescribed lidocaine patches, ibuprofen, acetaminophen, and oxycodone and discharged. The patient presented to the clinic for a follow-up appointment after her visits to the emergency room and complained of continued right-sided back pain that radiated around her side towards the lateral aspect of the umbilicus. Pain was provoked by tensing the abdominal wall and changes in position. Slight relief was achieved with pain medication and a heating pad. At her one-week follow-up appointment, the patient continued to have significant lower back pain that radiated to her abdomen. Suspicion of muscle spasms in her back prompted the prescription of baclofen, diazepam, and ketorolac. At her one-week follow-up, she continued to have significant pain. She was given a provisional diagnosis of anterior cutaneous nerve entrapment based on her presenting symptoms. Gabapentin was prescribed for symptoms of thoracic radiculopathy, and an MRI was ordered. At the two-month follow-up, she reported improvement of back pain radiating to the abdomen; however, an MRI of the thoracic spine included an incidental finding of a thoracic cord syrinx spanning the T5 to T11 vertebral body levels (Figure 1). The patient was advised to continue gabapentin for pain management and was given a referral to neurosurgery.