A 49‐year‐old male reported a 30‐year history of thoracolumbar pain and limited mobility and was diagnosed with AS with dual complications of AL and ICSH. Before correction surgery, physical examination, x‐ray, CT, MRI and Blood HLA‐B27 examination were performed and a series of radiological parameters, including the degree of kyphosis and the T1‐pelvic angle (TPA), were measured. Several days after surgery (Distal PSO was used), we performed examinations to check the patient's physical condition which showed the patient recovered remarkably. CTA was done, indicating that the patient's aorta moved anteriorly with the osteotomy side undamaged. A series of morphological parameters were measured again, including TPA, LL, and TK. CT and MRI were performed again, reflecting significant bone‐to‐bone fusion and successful recovery. The patient relieved the symptoms and regained his daily activities. A 49‐year‐old male presented a 30‐year history of thoracolumbar pain and limited mobility. The symptoms gradually worsened including the muscle strength of right lower extremity decreasing obviously, progressive plantar numbness, and limited dorsiflexion in the right foot. The patient reported no history of spinal trauma, infection, tumor, surgery, or family history of AS. Physical examination showed that the body leaned forward when standing. Normal spinal alighment was completely lost, with typical C‐shaped kyphosis laterally (Figure 1). The flexion and extension movements of hip joints were limited. The tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus of the right extremity completely lost its mobility. Quadriceps reflexes and Achilles tendon reflexes of the right extremity were absent while no pathologic reflexes were detected. The sense of pain and warmth in the right foot decreased. General appearance of the patient. X‐ray showed typical bamboo‐like changes without obvious coronal scoliosis. The thoracolumbar region showed kyphosis between L1 and L2 with 35°. The lumbar curve was pathological kyphosis. The T1‐pelvic angle (TPA) was 86° and the sacroiliac and hip joint space were either narrowed or lost (Figure 2). CT suggested ossification of the anterior paravertebral ligaments, facet joints hyperostosis and high‐density shadow at the vertebral body edge (Figure 3). Most notably, MRI revealed dilatation of the L1‐2 spinal canal and a typical “C‐shape” high signal area was on T2 and fat‐suppressed image (Figure 4), with spinal cord end protruding ventrally and paravertebral muscle biopsy indicated inflammatory cell infiltration inferring chronic inflammation had eroded the anterior part, causing thinning, rupture and defect. Blood HLA‐B27 examination was positive. These findings were well consistent with AS diagnosis, suggesting rare occurrences like spinal cord herniation and intervertebral disk lesion in AS patient. Coronal and sagittal x‐ray radiographs before surgery. The local kyphosis was located between L1‐2 with 35°. TK reduced to 20°. Lumbar appeared to be kyphosis with −38°. The TPA was 86°. There was no significant coronary deformity. CT sagittal reconstruction image before surgery. Ankylosing spondylitis caused Andersson lesion. The inflammation eroded the vertebral body and intravertebral cavity was formed in L1‐2, as shown by a yellow arrow and a red circle in the figure. Preoperative sagittal MRI‐T2 reconstruction and preoperative axial MRI‐T2 images from L1 to L2 level. The dural defect was formed in the ventral side. The spinal cord shifted forward through this dural defect and caused spinal herniation, as shown by green arrow in the figure. Cerebrospinal fluid penetrated into the intravertebral cavity and formed a C‐shaped high signal image, as shown by a yellow arrow in the figure. Open surgery was performed to correct AS deformity and neurological issues, with informed consent. Using x‐ray guidance, pedicle screws were bilaterally placed from T9 to S1 except L1 and L2 due to pedicle erosion. Vertebral laminas from L2 to L4 and the L3 facet joints were resected. Pedicle subtraction osteotomy (PSO) was performed at L3, and the sagittal alignment of spine was reformed and was then fixed with pre‐bending rods. Gel foam was used to prevent nerves shifting and domino connectors were installed with satellite rods. The surgical incisions were closed with absorbable sutures. Eventually, the operation counted a total blood loss of 1500 mL. 700 mL of the blood loss was auto‐recycled and transfused together with 1200 mL of red blood cells and 800 mL plasma. The operation went well and the patient spent 24 h in the ICU post‐op before transferring to the general ward. Seven days after surgery, the patient was transferred to the rehabilitation department. After two and a half weeks of rehabilitation, the patient was able to stand upright by himself and walked slowly. The muscle strengths of the right lower extremity gradually recovered to Grade III. By the time of leaving hospital, the patient had a stable recovery and the symptoms of neuropathy relieved. The hypoesthesia and motor dysfunction of the right lower extremity also improved remarkably. CTA showed that the aorta was in front of the L1‐2 vertebra, with a safe distance. The osteotomy side of the aorta was undamaged (Figure 5). CTA radiographs of the aorta' movement before and after surgery. The patient's aorta moved anteriorly with the osteotomy side and remained undamaged. At three‐month and one‐year follow‐up, the TPA reduced to 43° from 86°, the lumbar lordosis (LL) restored to 24° and then 27° while the thoracic kyphosis (TK) increased to 39°. (Figure 6). At two and a half years follow‐up (Figure 7), CT and MRI showed normal spinal nerve structure without obvious nerve compression. Significant bone‐to‐bone fusion were found in former pseudarthrosis. Coronal and sagittal x‐ray radiographs 3 months, one year and two and a half years after surgery. At the three‐month follow‐up, the sagittal alignment of the whole spine was approximately restored and the pathological local kyphosis disappeared. TK increased to 38°. Lumbar lordosis was restored to reach 24°. TPA reduced to 49° and the SVA was 145 mm. At the one‐year follow‐up, the sagittal alignment of the whole spine was further improved to be normal. TK was 39°. LL increased to 27°. The TPA further reduced to 43° and the SVA slightly decreased to 132 mm. At the two and a half‐year follow‐up, the sagittal alignment of the whole spine was all at its best, reflecting the gradual recovery of the patient. TK was 40°. LL increased to 29°. The TPA further reduced to 42° and the SVA decreased to 129 mm. CT and MRI sagittal reconstruction image two and a half years after surgery. The structure and position of the spinal nerves were favorable and there was no obvious nerve compression in the spinal canal. Significant bone‐to‐bone fusion was found in former pseudarthrosis as shown by a yellow arrow in the figure. All the symptoms above improved after two and a half years follow‐up. The patient reported the remaining symptoms of mild right foot numbness and weakness with no other complications occurring. In general, the patient highly satisfied with outcomes. The patient consented to publication of his image. This study was approved by Ethics Committee of Peking University Third Hospital (no. M2019488).