A 79-year-old woman presented to another hospital with progressively worsening left facial paralysis and an inability to walk. She had a two-year history of dry eyes and reduced salivary secretion (xerostomia). Neurologic examination revealed left facial nerve palsy (House-Blackman grade IV), left soft palate paralysis, and hoarseness, although swallowing function was preserved. She also exhibited lower limb weakness (manual muscle testing 3/5) in the gastrocnemius, quadriceps, hamstring, and tibialis anterior muscles. Additionally, she had right-sided allodynia and dysesthesia, along with severe lumbar pain, but no deep sensory disturbance or thermal sensation disorder. Laboratory tests showed no abnormalities in blood chemistry or complete blood count, but elevated levels of anti-SS-A antibody (>1,200 U/mL), anti-SS-B antibody (55.2 U/mL), antinuclear antibody (640×), and serum soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R; 508 U/mL). The Schirmer test was positive, and a labial minor salivary gland biopsy revealed lymphocytic and plasma cell infiltrates, confirming a diagnosis of SS. CSF examination revealed normal initial spinal fluid pressure (120 mm), mild protein elevation (134 mg/dL), and normal glucose levels (37 mg/dL). The CSF cell count was 72 cell/μL, with all cells being mononuclear. CSF sIL-2R levels were not measured, and CSF cytology was not performed. Thoracoabdominal plain computed tomography revealed no significant findings. Cervicothoracic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no obvious abnormalities. Brain MRI revealed high signal intensity on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in the left peripheral facial nerve and lower cranial nerves (Fig. 1A-C), with no high signal intensity in other areas of the central nervous system (CNS) (Fig. 1D). Constructive interference in steady-state (CISS) MRI showed enlargement of the left lower cranial nerve in the jugular foramen (Fig. 1E). However, contrast-enhanced MRI was not performed at that time. Furthermore, lumbar spine MRI could not be conducted due to severe lumbar pain, which restricted the patient's ability to extend her lower back. Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) was also not performed. Nerve conduction studies revealed severe peripheral lower limb sensory and motor neuropathy. A: Brain MRI before steroid pulse therapy and IVIG shows high signal intensity on DWI in the left lower cranial nerve passing through the left jugular foramen (white arrowhead). B: Brain MRI before steroid pulse therapy and IVIG shows high signal intensity on DWI in the left facial nerve peripheral to the brainstem (white arrowhead). C: Brain MRI before steroid pulse therapy and IVIG shows high signal intensity on DWI in the peripheral portion of the left lower cranial nerves (white arrowhead). D: Brain MRI before steroid pulse therapy and IVIG show no high signal intensity on DWI in the bilateral caudate nucleus or other areas of the central nervous system. E: Constructive interference in steady-state MRI shows an enlargement of the lower cranial nerve in the left jugular foramen. DWI: diffusion-weighted imaging; IVIG: intravenous immunoglobulin; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Her previous neurologists treated her for multiple neuropathies secondary to SS, and she underwent 5 cycles of plasmapheresis. In addition, her prior physician started high-dose methylprednisolone (1,000 mg/day) for 3 days and IVIG (400 mg/kg/day) for 5 days, followed by a second course of steroid pulse therapy (methylprednisolone 1,000 mg/day for 3 days). Afterward, she was prescribed oral prednisolone (0.5 mg/kg/day). While lower limb motor function temporarily improved, it worsened again, and swallowing function deteriorated within 2 weeks. A second brain MRI, performed 2 months after the first, revealed a more prominent and larger high signal intensity on DWI than before steroid pulse therapy and IVIG, in the same nerve regions as previously (Fig. 2A-C), with no high-intensity lesions on DWI in other CNS areas (Fig. 2D). CISS MRI also showed increased enlargement of the lower cranial nerves in the left jugular foramen compared to the first CISS MRI (Fig. 2E). A, B, and C: Brain MRI after steroid pulse therapy and IVIG shows much more obvious and larger high signal intensity on DWI than before steroid pulse therapy and IVIG in the same portion of the nerves before treatment (white arrowheads). D: Brain MRI after steroid pulse therapy and IVIG shows no high signal intensity on DWI in the bilateral caudate nucleus and another area of the central nervous system. E: CISS MRI shows that the lower cranial nerves in the left jugular foramen are more enlarged in comparison with the first CISS MRI. CISS: Constructive interference in steady state; DWI: diffusion-weighted imaging; IVIG: intravenous immunoglobulin; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging A third course of steroid pulse therapy (methylprednisolone 1,000 mg/day for 3 days) and a second course of IVIG (400 mg/kg/day for 5 days) were administered for refractory SS. However, swallowing function worsened, leading to a gastrostomy. Her symptoms progressively worsened. Four months after her first visit to her prior physician, she was transferred to our hospital with multiple peripheral nerve palsies, impaired consciousness, and severe lumbar pain. A third brain MRI, conducted at our hospital 4 months after the first MRI, revealed high signal intensity on DWI in the head of the caudate nucleus bilaterally (Fig. 3A) and the largest and most prominent high signal intensity on DWI in the peripheral portion of the left lower cranial nerves (Fig. 3B). Additionally, brain MRI showed gadolinium (Gd) enhancement in the head of the caudate nucleus bilaterally (Fig. 3C), the left facial nerve in the internal auditory canal (Fig. 3D) and facial canal (Fig. 3E and F), and the left lower cranial nerve. Laboratory tests revealed elevated anti-SS-A antibody (597 U/mL), elevated antinuclear antibody (160x), and elevated sIL-2 (1,080 U/mL), while all other lab values were normal. CSF analysis showed normal initial spinal fluid pressure (60 mm), mild elevation in protein (97 mg/dL), mild elevation in sugar (97 mg/dL), slightly elevated cell count (38 cell/μL, all mononuclear cells), high β2-microglobulin (5,417 mg/L), high sIL-2R (426.5 U/mL), and high interleukin-10 (509 pg/mL). No malignant cells were detected in CSF cytology. These findings suggested DLBCL, and she underwent navigation-guided brain tumor biopsy. Tissue samples were taken from the left caudate nucleus. Pathological analysis revealed diffuse proliferation of large lymphoma cells (Fig. 4A), and immunohistochemistry showed that tumor cells were positive for CD20 (Fig. 4B). The Ki-67 staining index was approximately 80% (Fig. 4C). The final histopathological diagnosis was DLBCL. A: Preoperative brain MRI shows high signal intensity on DWI in the head of the caudate nucleus bilaterally (white arrowhead). B: Preoperative MRI on DWI shows the most obvious and largest high signal intensity in the clinical course of the peripheral portion of the left lower cranial nerves (white arrowhead). C: Preoperative contrast-enhanced MRI shows gadolinium enhancement in the head of the caudate nucleus bilaterally (white arrowhead). D: Preoperative contrast-enhanced MRI shows gadolinium enhancement in the left facial nerve in the internal auditory canal (white arrowhead). E and F: Axial and coronal contrast-enhanced MRI shows gadolinium enhancement in the left facial nerve in the facial canal (white arrowhead). DWI: diffusion-weighted imaging; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging A: Hematoxylin and eosin-stained diffuse proliferation of large atypical cells. B: Immunostaining for CD20 is positive. C: The Ki-67 staining index was approximately 80%. Original magnification ×400 (A, B, and C). D: Lumbar axial spinal MRI shows T2/gadolinium enhancement in the right L4 nerve root (white arrowhead). E: Lumbar axial spinal MRI shows slightly high signal intensity on T1-weighted images in the right erector spinae muscle (white arrowheads). MRI: magnetic resonance imaging She underwent 6 cycles of R-MTX (rituximab, high-dose methotrexate), with rituximab (375 mg/kg) administered intravenously on day 1 and high-dose methotrexate (1,750 mg/kg) administered intravenously on day 2 of a 14-day cycle. After 6 cycles of R-MTX therapy, left facial nerve function improved to House Brackmann grade II. Lumbar pain also improved, and she regained the ability to extend her lower back. However, fiber laryngoscopy revealed left vocal cord paralysis, and dysphagia persisted. Brain MRI showed that the Gd-enhancing lesion in the head of the left caudate nucleus had resolved, but Gd enhancement remained in the left facial ganglion, left facial nerve in the facial canal, and left lower cranial nerve. Lumbar spinal MRI revealed Gd enhancement in the right L4 nerve root and slightly increased signal intensity on T-weighted images in the right erector spinae muscle (Fig. 4D and E). These findings suggested the presence of NL in the right L4 nerve root and fatty degeneration of the right erector spinae muscle due to damage to the right L4 nerve root. She has shown no evidence of recurrence for 12 months. Based on these findings, we diagnosed primary NL invading the CNS, rather than refractory SS.