A 57-year-old male, a taxi driver with a 60-pack-year smoking history and no known comorbidities or regular medication, presented to the emergency department with a three-week history of fever, dry cough, fatigue, weakness, anorexia, and excessive sweating. On admission, his physical examination was unremarkable except for a tympanic temperature of 38.9ºC (Table 1). Initial laboratory findings revealed leukocytosis (20,000/μL) with neutrophilia (91%), an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) level of 111 mg/L, and thrombocytopenia (93,000/μL). Arterial blood gas analysis (on room air) showed a pH of 7.52, partial pressure of carbon dioxide (CO₂) of 29.1 mmHg, partial pressure of oxygen (pO₂) of 82.4 mmHg, bicarbonate (HCO₃) of 25.9 mEq/L, potassium of 3.2 mEq/L, sodium of 135 mEq/L, chloride of 101 mEq/L, lactate of 1.0 mmol/L, and glucose of 156 mg/dL (Table 2). COVID-19 and influenza tests were negative. On the first day of hospitalization in the internal medicine ward, the patient remained febrile without an apparent infectious focus. A chest, abdominal, and pelvic CT scan was performed to investigate the persistent fever, revealing consolidations in the lower and upper lobes of the left lung with air bronchograms and ground-glass opacities, findings suggestive of pneumonia. Empirical antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and clarithromycin was initiated. On the second day, there was a sudden deterioration in mental status and respiratory distress, leading to the activation of the hospital’s emergency response team. He was noted to have a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 8, neck stiffness, positive Kernig and Brudzinski signs, and profuse sweating. His respiratory rate increased to 53 breaths per minute, blood pressure was 130/80 mmHg, and heart rate was 114 bpm (Table 1). Arterial blood gas analysis (on room air) showed a pH of 7.43, pCO₂ of 37 mmHg, pO₂ of 87 mmHg, HCO₃ of 25 mEq/L, oxygen saturation of 96.8%, and lactate of 1.9 mmol/L (Table 2). Given his worsening neurological and respiratory status, the patient was intubated, started invasive mechanical ventilation, and transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU). A lumbar puncture was performed, revealing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings consistent with bacterial meningitis: 7,960 cells/μL, predominantly polymorphonuclear leukocytes, glucose <2 mg/dL, and protein >600 mg/dL. Empirical antibiotic therapy was subsequently changed to ampicillin, ceftriaxone, and vancomycin. On the third ICU day, CSF culture confirmed Streptococcus pneumoniae as the causative pathogen. Peripheral blood cultures also grew Streptococcus pneumoniae, while sputum cultures were negative. Based on these results, ampicillin and vancomycin were discontinued, and dexamethasone was introduced to manage CNS inflammation. By the fifth ICU day, the patient exhibited pathological awakening, with fluctuating GCS scores between 6 and 8. An electroencephalogram (EEG) showed diffuse severe encephalopathy characterized by delta slowing. A CT brain scan revealed extensive bilateral temporal hypodensities extending into the brainstem, more pronounced on the right, raising the suspicion of vasculitic lesions (Figure 1), prompting further evaluation with MRI. On the seventh ICU day, MRI findings (Figure 2) confirmed the presence of meningoencephalitis with multiple acute ischemic lesions throughout both cerebral hemispheres and the brainstem. Additionally, purulent collections were detected within the ventricles, and there was an ependymal enhancement in keeping with ventriculitis. The imaging findings were consistent with a fulminant course of pneumococcal meningitis complicated with vasculitis. Despite 14 days of appropriate antibiotic therapy, the patient showed no signs of clinical improvement. His neurological status remained severely compromised, and he ultimately succumbed to the infection despite intensive medical efforts. Upon reviewing the clinical records, it is important to note that the patient had not received pneumococcal vaccination. This highlights the crucial role of preventive strategies in reducing the burden of bacterial meningitis. pCO₂: partial pressure of carbon dioxide; pO₂: partial pressure of oxygen; HCO₃: bicarbonate A-C: In the follow-up CT scan, new areas of hypodensity were seen in the temporal lobes bilaterally (circles in A and B) and in the brainstem (arrows in C). A-D: diffusion-weighted images (DWI) on the axial plane showing multiple bright areas scattered throughout the fronto-temporal lobes and on the pons bilaterally that are compatible with acute infarcts, as well as pus inside the ventricles (green arrows); E-G: post-contrast T2-FLAIR images on the axial plane, besides the parenchymal lesions, there’s also leptomeningeal (orange arrows) and ependymal (white arrows) enhancement in keeping with meningitis and ventriculitis, respectively; H: 3D time-of-flight (TOF) angiography with areas of vasoconstriction on both carotid tips and middle cerebral arteries, suggestive of vasculitis (blue arrows). FLAIR: fluid attenuated inversion recovery