A 43-year-old man with no significant medical history presented with mild dysuresia and recurrent sudden-onset numbness of the right limbs over one month. Initial brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) showed hyperintensities in the right frontal lobe, left parietal lobe, and bilateral centrum semiovale on diffusion-weighted images (DWI). He was diagnosed as cerebral embolism, but thrombolysis treatment was ineffective. Follow-up brain MRI revealed extension of the lesions and an intramedullary non-enhancing lesion was observed at the T1-T2 level on spinal cord MRI. Lumbar puncture was performed, and a diagnosis of inflammatory encephalomyelitis was considered. However, his symptoms worsened despite four months of glucocorticoid treatment. Subsequently, the patient underwent an 18F-FDG PET-CT scan. It showed diffuse increased FDG uptake in bilateral kidneys, but no specific increased FDG uptake was observed in the brain. To establish the final diagnosis, stereotactic brain biopsy was advised; however, the patient’s poor general condition precluded this procedure. Instead, we conducted a percutaneous kidney biopsy due to the abnormality of kidneys on PET-CT. The final diagnosis was intravascular large B-cell lymphoma with predominant involvement of the kidneys, brain, and spinal cord. He was treated with five cycles of intravenous chemotherapy. His neurological symptoms recovered almost completely. Repeat MRIs of the brain and spinal cord demonstrated marked improvement. A 43-year-old man presented with mild dysuresia and recurrent sudden-onset numbness of the right limbs over one month. The numbness manifested on four occasions, with each episode lasting from several minutes to one hour. His past medical history was unremarkable. An initial brain MRI showed T2/fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) patchy hyperintense lesions in the right frontal lobe, left parietal lobe, and bilateral centrum semiovale. These lesions were mild hyperintense on diffusion-weighted images (DWI) (Fig. 1, A-D). He was diagnosed of cerebral embolism, but thrombolysis treatment was ineffective. Therefore, the patient was referred to our hospital for further diagnosis. Neurological examination on admission was normal. Repeat brain MRI revealed extension of the lesions in the right frontal lobe and bilateral centrum semiovale without enhancement (Fig. 1, E-G). An intramedullary non-enhancing lesion was observed at the T1-T2 level on spinal cord MRI (Fig. 1H). Lumbar puncture revealed normal opening pressure, 14 white blood cells (94% lymphocytes, 6% monocytes), slightly elevated protein (590 mg/dL), normal glucose and chloride. The CSF cytology was negative for malignancy. Antibodies in serum and CSF including MBP, AQP4 and MOG were negative. The oligoclonal band in the CSF was weakly positive, whereas the serum was negative. A whole-body CT scan did not show any evidence of underlying malignancy. Routine laboratory tests, including serum screening for rheumatism and systemic vasculitis, serology for HIV and syphilis, and vitamin B12 and thyroid function level measurement, were normal. The serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level was mildly elevated at 354 U/L (normal range 120-230U/L). To establish the definitive diagnosis, stereotactic brain biopsy was recommended, but the patient rejected. Due to a high level of suspicion for a neuroinflammatory etiology, he received empiric intravenous methylprednisolone 500 mg daily for five days, followed by oral prednisone with a dose of 60 mg daily. The dosage of prednisone was tapered gradually by 5 mg per week.Fig. 1Initial axial FLAIR and DWI sequences showed patchy hyperintense lesions in the right frontal lobe, left parietal lobe (red arrows on A, B) and bilateral centrum semiovale (C, D). The second axial FLAIR sequences showed extension of hyperintense lesions in the right frontal lobe and bilateral centrum semiovale (E, G), without gadolinium enhancement (F, postcontrast axial T1). Sagittal cervical and thoracic spinal MRI (H, STIR sequence) showed an intramedullary hyperintense lesion at the T1-T2 level (white arrow). After 4 months, axial FLAIR sequences showed further extension of hyperintensity in the right frontal lobe, bilateral periventricular regions, centrum semiovale, and subcortical areas (I, J and K). PET/CT (L) showed diffuse increased FDG uptake in bilateral kidneys (SUVmax of 5.0) Initial axial FLAIR and DWI sequences showed patchy hyperintense lesions in the right frontal lobe, left parietal lobe (red arrows on A, B) and bilateral centrum semiovale (C, D). The second axial FLAIR sequences showed extension of hyperintense lesions in the right frontal lobe and bilateral centrum semiovale (E, G), without gadolinium enhancement (F, postcontrast axial T1). Sagittal cervical and thoracic spinal MRI (H, STIR sequence) showed an intramedullary hyperintense lesion at the T1-T2 level (white arrow). After 4 months, axial FLAIR sequences showed further extension of hyperintensity in the right frontal lobe, bilateral periventricular regions, centrum semiovale, and subcortical areas (I, J and K). PET/CT (L) showed diffuse increased FDG uptake in bilateral kidneys (SUVmax of 5.0) After 4 months, the patient was readmitted because of progressive lower limb weakness, urinary retention and epileptic seizures over 1 month. Additionally, the patient had pneumonia and hypoxemia. On physical examination, his lower limbs muscle strength was graded as 2/5. His deep tendon reflexes of lower limbs were decreased. The right Babinski sign was positive. The serum LDH level at this time was markedly elevated at 1244 U/L. Repeated brain MRI revealed further enlarged lesions in the right frontal lobe, bilateral periventricular regions, centrum semiovale, and subcortical areas (Fig. 1, I-K). Repeated spinal MRI revealed multiple abnormal lesions in the thoracic spinal cord. Due to symptom exacerbation, we reconsidered neoplasms, particularly lymphoma. The patient underwent an 18F-FDG PET-CT scan. It showed diffuse increased FDG uptake in bilateral kidneys with an SUVmax of 5.0 (Fig. 1L), but no specific increased FDG uptake was observed in the brain. To establish the final diagnosis, stereotactic brain biopsy was advised again. However, the patient’s general condition was poor due to severe pneumonia and hypoxemia, which made it difficult for the patient to tolerate biopsy surgery. Instead, we conducted a percutaneous kidney biopsy considering the abnormality of kidneys in PET-CT. Hematoxylin and eosin staining showed large atypical cells within glomerular capillaries. Subsequent immunohistochemical staining was positive for B-cell markers CD20 and CD79α in the neoplastic cells (Fig. 2). CD31 positivity was noted in the endothelial cells highlighting the intravascular nature of the neoplastic infiltrate. Based on these findings, a diagnosis of intravascular large B-cell lymphoma (IVLBCL) was made. The patient received five cycles of intravenous chemotherapy with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP). His neurological symptoms recovered almost completely. Follow-up MRIs of the brain and spinal cord were performed. The lesions in the brain were markedly improved and the lesions in spinal cord were dismissed (Fig. 3). This favorable treatment response further supported the final diagnosis of IVLBCL with predominant involvement of the kidneys, brain, and spinal cord. The overall clinical course of this patient was summarized in Fig. 4.Fig. 2The histopathological examination results of renal biopsy. HE staining showed the accumulation of large atypical cells in the lumen of small blood vessels (A). Immunohistochemical staining showed positive for B-cell markers CD20 (B) and CD79α (C) in the neoplastic cells. The Ki67 proliferation index was about 80% (D)Fig. 3After five cycles of intravenous chemotherapy, axial FLAIR sequences showed marked improvement of lesions in the right frontal lobe (A), bilateral periventricular regions, centrum semiovale and subcortical areas (B, C). Sagittal thoracic MRI (D, STIR sequence) showed the intramedullary lesion was dismissedFig. 4Timeline of the development of symptoms, key findings from imaging and laboratory tests, diagnosis and treatment The histopathological examination results of renal biopsy. HE staining showed the accumulation of large atypical cells in the lumen of small blood vessels (A). Immunohistochemical staining showed positive for B-cell markers CD20 (B) and CD79α (C) in the neoplastic cells. The Ki67 proliferation index was about 80% (D) After five cycles of intravenous chemotherapy, axial FLAIR sequences showed marked improvement of lesions in the right frontal lobe (A), bilateral periventricular regions, centrum semiovale and subcortical areas (B, C). Sagittal thoracic MRI (D, STIR sequence) showed the intramedullary lesion was dismissed Timeline of the development of symptoms, key findings from imaging and laboratory tests, diagnosis and treatment