A previously healthy 11-year-old boy presented with a one-week history of acute esotropia. A dilated fundus exam revealed peripheral snowballs with multiple areas of perivascular sheathing bilaterally with corresponding focal vascular leakage on fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA). Complete systemic workup, including brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), showed hyperintensities involving brain parenchyma, cerebellum, and a short spinal cord segment. The neurological exam and lumbar puncture results were within normal at that time. However, later on, the patient presented with progressively worsening systemic manifestations, including ataxic gait, dysarthria, and upper and lower limb weakness. Multiple treatment regimens were initiated without significant improvement, including intravenous methylprednisolone, intravenous immunoglobulins, and plasma exchange. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) revealed a pathogenic homozygous missense mutation (c.1081 A > T p.(Arg361Trp)) in the PRF1 gene, confirming the diagnosis of familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. HLH treatment protocol was initiated, and the patient was transferred to another center for a hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). A previously healthy 11-year-old Saudi boy was referred to our pediatric ophthalmology service for acute esotropia of one week duration. The history was negative for diplopia, headache, numbness, weakness, fever, recurrent illnesses, or hospitalization. There was no history of trauma or prior surgery. His family history was negative for any similar complaints or any inherited diseases. Examination revealed a visual acuity of 20/20 in both eyes, intraocular pressure was normal, and a good red reflex was present with no relative afferent pupillary defect. Extraocular motility showed a 10% abduction deficit in both eyes with slowed saccadic and smooth pursuits. An esotropia of 15 prism diopters was present at distance and near, and cycloplegic refraction revealed mild hyperopia. A slit lamp examination of the anterior segment was unremarkable. However, a dilated fundus examination revealed a clear vitreous with few snowballs and multiple areas of perivascular sheathing bilaterally. Ocular coherence tomography (OCT) of the macula was within normal limits. Fluorescein angiography (FFA) revealed focal vascular leakage corresponding to the areas of perivascular sheathing, with no ischemia (Fig. 1). Fig. 1A-D Ultra-wide field fundus photos of the right and the left eyes showing multiple areas of perivascular sheathing. E, F Ultra-wide field fundus fluorescein angiography showing focal vascular leakage with no ischemia A-D Ultra-wide field fundus photos of the right and the left eyes showing multiple areas of perivascular sheathing. E, F Ultra-wide field fundus fluorescein angiography showing focal vascular leakage with no ischemia Given these findings, the patient was admitted to our institute for further workup. His vital signs, including temperature, pulse, blood pressure, and respiratory rate, were within normal limits. Initial investigations, including complete blood count (CBC), liver function test (LFT), renal function test (RFT), lipid profile, coagulation profile, and ferritin levels, were all within normal limits. A serology for tuberculosis and syphilis was done, which showed negative results. A Computed tomography (CT) of the chest was done, which was clear. However, a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium contrast was performed and showed innumerable punctate foci of T2/FLAIR hyperintensities involving supra and infratentorial brain parenchyma, punctate enhancement of the cerebellum, and a short segment of spinal cord enhancement at D9. In view of these radiological findings, the pediatric neurology service was consulted and admitted the patient for further workup. Neurological examination was normal, with full motor and sensory functions bilaterally. A lumbar puncture was performed, and samples were sent for analysis and an autoimmune antibody panel. After ruling out infectious causes, differential diagnoses of autoimmune disease, vasculitis, or a demyelinating process were considered. The initiation of steroid therapy was discussed with the family; however, the family refused treatment and elected to be discharged against the treating team’s advice. The patient presented to the emergency department two months after discharge with progressive unsteady gait, neck pain, and worsening of esotropia. A course of intravenous (IV) pulse methylprednisolone was given for three days with some improvement in symptoms. He presented one month later with worsening symptoms, dysarthria, upper and lower limb weakness, and ataxic gait. MRI was repeated and showed redemonstration of areas of T2 enhancement with mild progression of lesions in the cerebellum. A positron emission tomography (PET) scan and bone marrow biopsy were done but were unremarkable. Pulse therapy with IV methylprednisolone daily for five days was started, followed by oral prednisolone 1 mg/kg with slow tapering. A Monthly intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) infusion was also given for three months. At this stage, the patient was assessed by our genetics team, and whole exome sequencing (WES) was sent. The patient returned three months later with more worsening symptoms in the form of decreased appetite, dysarthria, pain, and pronounced lower limb weakness, rendering him unable to ambulate. His left knee was in fixed flexion. Brain MRI was repeated and showed interval progression of brain and spinal cord lesions, most pronounced at the cerebellar hemispheres. He received IV pulse methylprednisolone daily for five days and seven sessions of Plasma exchange every other day in an intensive care setting without any improvement. Although the patient didn’t fully meet the HLH-2004 diagnostic criteria initially, WES revealed a pathogenic homozygous missense mutation (c.1081 A > T p.(Arg361Trp)) in the PRF1 gene, confirming the diagnosis of familial HLH. The patient was transferred to our hematology and oncology service for further management. HLH treatment protocol was initiated (dexamethasone, etoposide, and monthly IVIG) and continued for 17 weeks until the patient was transferred to a different center for HSCT. During the duration of treatment, symptoms improved, and follow-up MRIs showed interval improvement in the areas of previous enhancements. However, the patient remained unable to ambulate due to persisting lower limb weakness. Genetic testing of the family was done, and three siblings had heterozygous PRF1 mutations and were asymptomatic. During the course of the disease, multiple follow-ups to the ophthalmology clinic showed stable findings and quiet eyes with no progression of the initial posterior segment manifestations.