A 47-year-old male presented to the emergency room with midline low back pain and intermittent numbness and tingling of his legs for 3 months. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed 2 months prior by his primary physician revealed a cystic structure (3.2 cm × 1.1 cm × 1.8 cm) posterior to the L2–L3 disc space that stenosed the spinal canal and displaced the nerve roots [Figure 1a]. Right leg pain developed despite conservative therapy, prompting presentation to the hospital. On examination, he had diminished light touch below the right ankle but otherwise unremarkable findings. He denied leg weakness or bowel/bladder incontinence and was discharged with orders for another MRI. (a) Sagittal magnetic resonance T2 lumbar spine showing the schwannoma centered on L2–3 disc (March 2024). (b) Magnetic resonance T2 lumbar spine showing the schwannoma centered on L1–2 disc (June 2024) The scan performed 18 days later revealed mass migration to the L1–L2 disc space [Figure 1b], with increasing mass effect against the conus medullaris and tethering of lumbar and sacral nerve roots distally. Clinically, the patient reported worsening back pain and difficulty sleeping and walking. Neurological examination findings remained unchanged. Ten days later, an L1–L2 laminectomy was performed. Intraoperative ultrasound confirmed tumor location prior to durotomy. A 2.7 cm long mass arising from a single nerve root was identified [Figure 2] and dissected away from the nerve roots, its cystic fluid aspirated to decrease its size. The originating nerve root was stimulated, revealing no electrical activity from lower extremity skeletal or anal sphincter muscles. The root was cauterized and divided proximal and distal to the tumor, which was removed en bloc. Pathological analysis confirmed a grade I schwannoma. Two-and-a-half weeks postoperatively, the patient was recovering well and free of pain, weakness, and numbness. Microscopic image of an L1–2 laminectomy with intradural morphology and appearance of the schwannoma intraoperative setting A 50-year-old woman initially presented to a primary physician with 5 years of low back pain. She found relief with acupuncture but reported a recent worsening of pain with radiation down her anterolateral left leg. She denied weakness or bowel/bladder incontinence but noted leg numbness with severe pain. She was diagnosed with sciatica and prescribed anti-inflammatories. During a follow-up visit 2 years later, she described worsening pain over the prior 6 months, with periods of discomfort and sharp electric impulses that radiated down her left leg. MRI performed 6 weeks prior revealed a bilobed cystic mass extending from the mid-L2 vertebral body level down to the L3–L4 disc level, displacing nerve roots peripherally [Figure 3a]. Two weeks before this visit, however, her back pain had abruptly resolved. She denied any pain, paresthesias, sensory loss, or weakness in either leg at this visit. Subsequent MRI showed cephalad mass migration to the T12-L1 level [Figure 3b], laterally displacing the conus medullaris and proximal cauda equina roots. (a) Sagittal magnetic resonance T2 lumbar spine showing the schwannoma centered on L2–3 disc (November 2023). (b) Sagittal magnetic resonance T2 lumbar spine showing the schwannoma centered on T12–L1 disc (January 2024). (c) Sagittal magnetic resonance T2 lumbar spine showing the schwannoma extending from L2–3 disc space to the L3–L4 disc space. (d) Sagittal magnetic resonance T2 lumbar spine revealing the mass again at the L2–L3 level, occupying most of the canal and displacing the cauda equina (July 2024) Approximately 5 months later, the patient experienced a recurrence of severe low back and left leg pain with weakness and episodes of leg buckling. Repeat MRI revealed the mass to now extend from the L2–L3 disc level to the L3–L4 disc, again occupying most of the canal and displacing the cauda equina [Figure 3c]. As previous imaging had also shown this migrating mass to be located in the mid-lumbar region when symptomatic, a laminectomy for tumor removal was planned. On the day before surgery, 6 weeks following her most recent MRI, an additional MRI showed that the tumor had migrated cephalad 1 cm [Figure 3d]. During surgery, L2 and L3 laminectomies were performed, and tumor location was confirmed using intraoperative ultrasound prior to durotomy. A 4.0 cm long mass was found, arising from a single nerve root loop that originated proximally and returned distally in a cephalad direction to beyond the dural opening [Figure 4]. This was likely a thoracic nerve root that had been stretched as the tumor migrated downward. The mass was dissected from the nerve roots, and cystic fluid was aspirated to decrease its size. The attached root was stimulated, with no electrical activity detected from the lower extremity skeletal or anal sphincter muscles. The root was cauterized and divided proximal and distal to the tumor, which was removed en bloc. Pathologic analysis confirmed a grade I schwannoma. One month postoperatively, the patient was recovering well and was free of pain, weakness, or numbness. Microscopic image of an L2–4 laminectomy with intradural morphology and appearance of the schwannoma intraoperative setting (July 2024)