A 4-year-old girl presented with pain and bulging in the lumbar spine. On neurologic examination, there were no motor or sensory deficits, the urinary and anal sphincters were normal. Imaging examinations (computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging) showed fusion of L1/L2 with a bony septum separating two dural sacs and a bony caudal appendage articulating with the posterior elements of L2. The patient was treated surgically and progressed well. Regression of the human embryonic tail occurs in the 8th week of pregnancy. In some cases, a caudal remnant stays in the coccygeal region or just above it. The association with spinal dysraphism may be present, and surgical treatment will depend on the complexity of the anomaly. A 4-year-old girl came to the neurosurgery department with pain in her lower back. Examination revealed she had a bulge in the lumbar spine, no motor or sensory deficits, and normal sphincters. The mother reported an uneventful pregnancy and no known perinatal infections. She had not taken folic acid during pregnancy. Ultrasound at 32 weeks of gestation showed no abnormalities. The infant was born at 39 weeks of gestation by vaginal delivery; she weighed 3.800 g, measured 50 cm, a head circumference was 35 cm, and had a bulge in the lumbar region with intact skin. The Apgar score was 9 at 1 min and 10 at 5 min consecutively. Computed tomography (CT) of the lumbosacral spine showed incomplete fusion of the posterior arches from T12 to the sacrum, fusion of L1/L2 with a bony septum separating the two dural sacs [Figures 1a and b], with a bony caudal appendage articulating with the posterior elements of L2 [Figures 1c]. The two dural sacs, separated by an osteocartilaginous septum, are more evident [Figure 1d] on axial T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A surgical procedure was then performed to resect the bony septum in the L1/L2 region separating the two dural sacs [Figures 2a and b] and to resect the osteocartilaginous caudal appendix [Figure 2c]. The patient progressed well in the postoperative period, with no cerebrospinal fluid fistula, no motor deficit, and no sphincter alterations. (a) CT scan of the lumbar spine, sagittal section, showing fusion of the bodies of L1 and L2 and an osteocartilaginous septum in this region(circle), (b) CT scan of the lumbar spine, axial section, showing the osteocartilaginous septum coming out of the posterior region of the body of L1(circle), (c) CT scan of the lumbar spine with 3D reconstruction showing a bony protuberance (circle) articulating with the posterior elements of L2 that resembles a tail, and (d) T2-weighted MRI scan, showing two hemicords(white arrows), each with its own dural sac separated by an osteocartilaginous septum. (a) Postoperative sagittal CT scan of the lumbar spine showing resection of the osteocartilaginous septum in the L1/ L2 region(circle); (b) Axial CT scan of the lumbar spine showing resection of the osteocartilaginous septum in the posterior region of the L1 body(circle); (c) Resection of the bony protuberance (human tail). The syringe on the side was used as a reference scale corresponding to approximately 8 cm.