A 32-year-old patient underwent surgery in November 2022 following an ASIA A SCI at the C4–C5 level due to a paragliding traumatic accident. An emergency anterior decompression with C4–C5 arthrodesis was performed. In the postoperative period, the patient developed severe spasticity and spasms in all four limbs which could cause falls, with a Modified Ashworth Scale (mAS) score of 4/4 and a Penn Spasm Frequency Scale score of 4, both resistant to oral baclofen at a dose of 120 mg per day administered in three divided doses. The patient provided signed informed consent to participate in a study. In March 2023, a programmable Synchromed™ II 20 ml device (Medtronic Inc, MN) connected to an intrathecal catheter advanced up to the C4 level was implanted via a lumbar puncture for ITB infusion, with a continuous dose of 100 mcg/24 h. The patient showed significant improvement in spasticity, with a modified Ashworth score (mAS) 0/4. Three weeks later, the patient developed a meningocele accompanied by lumbar scar dehiscence, which required removal of the device and initiation of probabilistic antibiotic therapy. After wound healing and completion of antibiotic treatment, faced to spasticity recurrence, the patient underwent another intrathecal pump implantation via lumbar puncture. However, during the procedure, the catheter could not be positioned at the cervical level and was instead placed at the T2 level. As a result, spasticity remained unchanged with a mAS always at 4/4 using the baclofen equivalent previous continuous dose. Finally, a lateral C1–2 approach was proposed to optimally position the catheter at the cervical level. The preoperative evaluation included an angio CT scan and a spinal MRI which did not reveal any anatomical variations in the vertebral artery trajectory, nor any cranio cervical or spinal cord abnormalities. A simulated puncture was performed, and the distance skin-rachis measured. The procedure was performed under general anesthesia in the operating room, using a 3D imaging system, the O-Arm (Medtronic Navigation Inc.). The patient was positioned supine with the head secured in a radiolucent Mayfield horseshoe head holder, ensuring a neutral position. A Metrix* plate served as a marker, fixed with a transparent drape to guide the puncture. The plate was positioned on the lateral cervical area approximately 1.5 cm below and behind the mastoid process (Figure 1A). Fluoroscopic and CT-guided imaging of C1–C2 intrathecal access. (A): Lateral fluoroscopic view showing the trajectory of the Tuohy needle through the C1–C2 interlaminar space toward the intrathecal compartment. (B): Anteroposterior fluoroscopic view confirming midline alignment of the needle. (C): Axial CT image following contrast injection, clearly outlining the spinal cord and confirming intrathecal placement. Initial lateral fluoroscopy was used to guide a Tuohy needle toward the posterior spinal canal, just behind the Flair Point (FP) (Figure 2C), which corresponds to the posterior boundary of the spinal cord between C1 and C2, slightly within the spinolaminar line. After advancing the needle 4–5 cm, fluoroscopy helped to guide the needle tip toward the target (Figure 1B). When a resistance was felt at the pre op planned depth, the needle direction is controlled on the axial reconstruction of a 3D acquisition. Then the needle is pushed with a sharp movement to go through the yellow ligament and the duramater. The stylet was withdrawn to check for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) return. A myelography is carefully performed, starting by injecting 1 ml and checking the contrast pulsation by fluoroscopy before injecting 5 cc of intrathecal contrast (Iopamiron*). A 3D imaging (Figure 1C) is performed. After confirming the needle's position relative to the spinal cord in the posterior citern, the intrathecal catheter (Ascenda*, Medtronic, Inc.) is introduced and advanced down to the C4 level (Figures 2A,B). A skin incision centered at the needle site was made. The guidewire and the needle were removed, taking care not to move the catheter which was anchored. The previous pump was then removed through an abdominal incision and the intrathecal catheter tunneled from the retromastoid incision to the abdominal pump pocket over the thoracic cage using a shunt passer. The intrathecal catheter was connected to the pump. [(A)—coronal view, (B)—sagittal view]: intraoperative CT scans with multiplanar reconstructions demonstrating precise placement of a Tuohy needle at the C1–C2 interlaminar space under 3D image guidance, with the catheter tip positioned at the C4 level. (C) Preoperative sagittal T1-weighted MRI illustrating the anatomical modeling of the “Flair Point”. No complications related to the C1–2 puncture were observed. Additionally, no wound or catheter-related issues were noted after 8 months follow-up. The patient quickly experienced a significant reduction in spasticity that the baclofen daily dose need to be reduced. No reported cases of spasticity worsening were reported during the 8 months follow-up period with a mAS score of 1/4 and a Penn Spasm Frequency Scale score of 1. The pump baclofen concentration was changed to 2,000 µg/m with increasing the dose to 514 µg/24 h. The patient was very satisfied by the results. The disappearance of the violent muscle spasms, the primary goal, allowed to intensify rehabilitation.