We present the case of a 78-year-old man with recurrent episodes of TLOC due to raised ICP triggered by mechanical compression of a large postoperative lumbar pseudomeningocele. The video-electroencephalogram (EEG) showed sudden flattening distinctly different from EEG changes seen in cardiovascular TLOC. A 78-year-old otherwise healthy man presented with recurrent TLOC lasting between 10 and 60 s with rapid reorientation and no postictal aphasia or other neurological deficits. The episodes had started 2 months after a lumbar spinal stenosis operation with 360° spondylodesis that had to be revised one time shortly after the first surgery. At first, the episodes occurred occasionally but then slowly increased in frequency over the following months, up to 10 times per day. The patient was treated with lamotrigine for a short time, but this was quickly discontinued due to a lack of clinical benefit. Over this period, the patient developed a palpable fluid-filled tumor in the vicinity of the scar (Fig. 1). A lumbar MRI showed a large CSF-filled pseudomeningocele (11 × 6.5 × 8 cm) as a correlate (Fig. 2a, b, Fig. 3). Compression of the pseudomeningocele led to the immediate onset of TLOC with staring, vertical eye deviation, and occasional clonic movements of the arms and legs as witnessed by his wife. The video-EEG during one episode that was triggered by soft manual compression of his pseudomeningocele resulted in a TLOC with sudden flattening of the EEG for approximately 10 s without any preceding bifrontal delta waves followed by a quick return to baseline EEG with slight general slowing that corresponded with the patient’s recovery until he was completely responsive again. The ECG was unchanged, and the peripheral pulse was palpable throughout the episode (see online suppl. Video S1). The pseudomeningocele was then operated on and closed with a dural patch. No further episodes of TLOC occurred during a follow-up period of 20 months. Lumbar bulge corresponding to a pseudomeningocele filled with CSF. The pseudomeningocele, visible from the outside as a lumbar protrusion circled by black arrows in the image, runs along the area of the surgical scar. a, b Lumbar MRI of the spine and T2-weighted sequences: transverse (a), sagittal (b). The white arrows show the dural defect and fluid-filled bulge, and the CSF appears hyperintense in the presented T2-weighted sequences. Timeline of key clinical events.