We present a case of an isolated spinal hydatid cyst in the lumbar spine in a 13-year-old girl presented with progressive bilateral lower limb paraparesis. The radiological, laboratory, and clinical findings were consistent with a diagnosis of brucellosis. However, the symptoms persisted despite treatment, and it was later revealed through surgery and pathological examination that the child had isolated hydatid cysts in the vertebrae. A 13-year-old female was referred to our medical institution exhibiting progressive bilateral lower limb paraparesis. Four months antecedent to presentation, she manifested lower lumbar pain concomitant with fever and headache, prompting consultation with a general internist. Brucellosis was diagnosed, leading to an unspecified 10-day treatment course that the family did not adhere to. Seeking resolution for ongoing lumbar discomfort, the patient sought the expertise of an orthopedic practitioner, leading to the identification of vertebral compression fracture at the T12-L1 level via computed tomography (CT) imaging. Concurrently, due to persistent fever, a Wright test was requisitioned, revealing a titer of 1/320 indicative of Maltese infection. Subsequently, the patient underwent treatment with rifampicin and Bactrim. After the course of treatment, Wright was retested and the result was negative, so the patient was transferred to our facility for paraparesis evaluation. Clinical neurologic examination revealed a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 15/15, absence of cranial nerve deficits, and normal upper limb strength, tone, and reflexes. However, scrutiny of the lower limbs unveiled 1/5 strength in hip and knee flexion and extension bilaterally, 2/5 in the left ankle and fingers, and 3/5 in the right one. Additional findings included hypotonia, hyporeflexia, and normative bilateral plantar reflex. Sensory paresthesia extended to the inguinal ligament, unaccompanied by sphincter involvement, alongside an unexplained elevation in body temperature. Based on the CT scan and clinical findings, a vertebral collapse at the L1 level was disclosed, prompting the decision for surgical intervention (Fig. 1). Doctors thought the CT findings go with the diagnosis of Maltese infection. During the abdominal position surgery, a radiographic determination of the first vertebra’s level was made, and the layers were opened from T11 to L3. Spinal fusion was performed using eight screws at T11-12 and L2-3. Notably, an extrameningeal cyst within the spinal canal at L1, exerting pressure on the meninges, was discovered and excised. Histopathological analysis revealed an acellular hyalinized laminated wall consistent with a hydatid (echinococcus) cyst (Fig. 2). Postoperatively, the patient’s condition was stable with normal vital signs. Treatment included albendazole 400 mg daily for 9 weeks, with 1-week intervals between every 3 weeks, alongside a prescribed physical therapy regimen.Figure 1.CT scan relieved a vertebral collapse at the L1 level. Figure 2.Diagrammatic representation of the three layers of hydatid cyst. Black arrow endocyst: comprising the germinal membrane along with protoscolices; blue arrow exocyst: comprising lamellated eosinophilic acellular avascular structures; orange arrow: pericyst: fibrocellular tissue. CT scan relieved a vertebral collapse at the L1 level. Diagrammatic representation of the three layers of hydatid cyst. Black arrow endocyst: comprising the germinal membrane along with protoscolices; blue arrow exocyst: comprising lamellated eosinophilic acellular avascular structures; orange arrow: pericyst: fibrocellular tissue. A follow-up month revealed a 40% decrease in the first lumbar vertebra’s body height, accompanied by inconsistent signs and the recurrence of cysts on both sides, varying in size, with the largest measuring 2.2 cm.