A 79-year-old woman presented with a two-year history of numbness in her lower limbs, right calf pain, and associated gait disturbance. Three months previously, her symptoms had worsened, so she requested surgical treatment. On physical examination, she exhibited decreased reflexes in the patellar and Achilles tendons and decreased superficial sensation along the lateral aspect of both legs. Manual muscle testing (MMT) in the lower limbs was normal. Her preoperative Japanese Orthopaedic Association and visual analog pain scores were 13 (out of 29) and 6 (out of 10), respectively. Plain radiography showed lumbar degeneration and mild lumbar kyphosis but no lumbar spondylolisthesis (Figure 1). Preoperative X-ray showing lumbar degeneration and mild kyphosis, not showing lumbar spondylolisthesis. (a) Anteroposterior view; (b) forward flexion; (c) neutral position; (d) backward flexion. Myelography showed L3/4 hourglass stenosis, a large contrast defect at L4/5 on the right, and moderate anterior indentation at L1/2 and L3/4 (Figure 2). (a) Anteroposterior view. L3/4 hourglass stenosis, L4/5 right side large defect of dural sac (yellow arrowheads); (b) forward flexion; (c) neutral position. Moderate anterior indentation of L1/2 and L3/4 (yellow arrows); (d) backward flexion. Computed tomography myelography showed an L4/5 calcified disc herniation, a partially fused left L2/3 facet joint, and L1/2 and L3/4 stenosis (Figure 3). (a) Sagittal image of lumbar spine. (b) Axial image of L1/2. Lumbar spinal canal stenosis was shown. (c) Axial image of L2/3. The L2/3 facet with partial union was shown (yellow arrowhead). (d) Axial image of L3/4. Lumbar spinal canal stenosis was shown. (e) Axial image of L4/5. L4/5 calcificated herniation was shown (yellow arrow). (f) Axial image of L5/S1. MRI revealed stenosis at L1/2 and L3/4, as well as right L4/5 stenosis (Figure 4). (a) Sagittal image of lumbar spine. (b) Axial image of L1/2. Lumbar spinal canal stenosis was shown. (c) Axial image of L2/3. (d) Axial image of L3/4. Lumbar spinal canal stenosis was shown. (e) Axial image of L4/5. Lumbar spinal canal stenosis was shown on the right side of L4/5. (f) Axial image of L5/S1. The patient underwent partial laminectomies at L1/2, L3/4, and L4/5 without intraoperative complications (Figure 5). The posterior approach was performed by longitudinally splitting the spinous processes from L1 to L4. Bone resection on the spinous process side was performed until the chevron of the yellow ligament was visible. The yellow ligament was split vertically in the middle, separated into left and right sides, and then removed. The operative time was two hours and 23 minutes, and bleeding was 206 ml. The postoperative drain output was 30 ml. Operative findings: conducting L1/2, L3/4, and L4/5 partial laminectomy. The day after surgery, her numbness and leg pain had improved. On the second day, she developed dull pain and mild sensory impairment in the anterior left thigh and muscle weakness in the left lower extremity (MMT scores were 2 in the iliopsoas and 4 in the quadriceps). Lumbar spine MRI at the time showed a predominantly right-sided epidural hematoma at L3/4 and consolidation of the cauda equina nerve roots at L2/3, a level at which we did not operate (Figure 6). Postoperative MRI showed that decompression of the spinal canal was sufficient, and the hematoma at L3/4 was also compressing the right side of the spinal canal rather than the left side, with symptoms. Therefore, emergency surgery was deemed unnecessary, and the patient was observed for the rest of the day. (a) Sagittal image of lumbar spine. The spinal canal was decompressed at L1/2, L3/4, and L4/5. (b) Axial image of L1/2. (c) Axial image of L2/3. Cauda equina consolidation at the L2/3 level was shown (yellow arrowhead), which was not operated on. (d) An axial image of L3/4. The right-leaning epidural hematoma of L3/4 was shown (yellow arrow). (e) Axial image of L4/5. (f) Axial image of L5/S1. The drain was removed on postoperative day three because of an improvement in muscle strength (MMT scores were 3 in the iliopsoas and 5 in the quadriceps). Four days later, the left anterior thigh pain had improved, and the left iliopsoas MMT score improved to 4. Four weeks after surgery, the patient was discharged from the hospital with the ability to walk with the assistance of a T-cane, although she still required supervision. The Japanese Orthopaedic Association score at discharge was 20 (improved from 13), and the visual analog pain score was zero. At the three-month follow-up, her left iliopsoas MMT score improved to 5, and she was able to walk independently with a T-cane; MRI showed improvement in the L2/3 spinal canal stenosis (Figure 7). (a) Sagittal image of the lumbar spine. (b) Axial image of L1/2. (c) Axial image of L2/3. Cauda equina consolidation was improved (yellow arrowhead). (d) Axial image of L3/4. The right-leaning epidural hematoma of L3/4 had disappeared. (e) Axial image of L4/5. (f) Axial image of L5/S1. As part of the postoperative evaluation, the lumbar lordosis and the local kyphosis angle were measured both pre- and postoperatively (Figure 8). (a) Preoperative lumbar lordosis. (b) Postoperative lumbar lordosis. Both angles were the same at 7 degrees. (c) Preoperative local kyphosis angle. (d) Postoperative local kyphosis angle. Both angles were the same at 2.5 degrees. There was no difference before and after the surgery. The anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal and the dural canal cross-sectional area (CSA) in the L2/3 level on MRI were also measured (Figure 9). (a–c) The anteroposterior diameter of the spinal canal at the L2/3 level on MRI before surgery, immediately after, and at the three-month follow-up (all were 7.9 mm). (d–f) The cross-sectional area of the spinal canal at L2/3 on MRI before surgery, immediately after, and at the three-month follow-up (66.5 mm2 vs. 96.8 mm2 vs. 93.0 mm2, respectively).