While performing a routine anatomy sonogram on a female patient in her mid-30s gravida 3 para 2 at 21 weeks of gestation, we identified an abnormal mass on the foetal chest (figure 1). We initially diagnosed a probable neural tube defect (NTD), specifically a closed myelomeningocele (abnormal lump on the lower back covered by intact overlying skin). We performed an ultrasound-guided amniocentesis in our office at 25 weeks (figure 2). The microarray study revealed a normal karyotype with 46 XY chromosomes (figure 3). We then performed a follow-up foetal sonogram at 31 weeks and 5 days of gestation (figure 4): we noted the persistence of a complex image in the lumbosacral region extending towards the left thoracic area, measuring 6.07×10.84 cm, with negative Doppler signals. Specifically, we described the image as numerous fluid-filled cysts divided by multiple curvilinear septations. The lack of Doppler signals, the septated appearance and the location were more suggestive of a lymphangioma than an NTD. The presence of relatively large cystic spaces pointed towards the specific ‘macrocystic’ subtype of lymphangioma. The Doppler flow analysis in the foetal umbilical artery and maternal uterine artery was normal. We therefore diagnosed a cystic lymphangioma and referred her to a tertiary care medical centre. She was asymptomatic during the whole gestation. In the tertiary care centre, they decided to perform a scheduled caesarean delivery at 38 weeks of gestation. As per our local hospital policy, we perform caesarean delivery every time there is a major foetal malformation—we shared this with the patient and she agreed. The baby at birth weighed 3450 g and had Apgar 8 and 9 at 1 and 5 min, respectively. Right after birth, a skin discolouration was noted in the left dorsal region, measuring 20×23 cm—via sonogram, we noted, along with the presence of a lymphangioma measuring 10×8 cm underneath this skin discolouration (figure 5): predominantly cystic lesion with multiple thin and thick septa, some displaying vascularity on Doppler, seemingly without communication with the spinal canal. On the second day of life, a thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed, reporting an image suggestive of a lymphangioma in the left hemithorax, with the lower limit extending to the iliac crest and the upper limit reaching the axillary region. Paediatric surgery evaluated the case the same day, determining that surgical intervention was unnecessary. The patient was discharged with signs warranting attention, and follow-up appointments were scheduled at their designated medical facility. At 3 months of age, the lesion was stable and the baby was in good clinical condition.