A 76-year-old female presented to the spine clinic with unexplained lower back pain and bilateral leg pain while urinating for the past 2 months. Without any clear precipitating factors, the patient began to experience back pain and bilateral leg pain two months ago, which had been worsening over time. Local radiotherapy was administered at a different hospital, considering the possibility of a metastatic tumor. The patient was diagnosed with lung cancer 6 years ago and underwent lung radiotherapy for 5 years. However, two months ago, she started experiencing back pain and a positron emission tomography/computed tomography scan revealed a high suspicion of metastasis to the L2/L3 vertebral bodies. The patient denied any family history of malignant tumors. Upon examination, severe lumbar spinal movement restriction was noted, along with tenderness and radiating pain at L2/L3, particularly on the left side. Muscle strength in both legs was decreased, and a positive straight leg raise test was observed on the left side. Laboratory tests revealed an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 54 mm/hour and a C-reactive protein of 32 mg/dL, with the rest of the examination results being essentially normal. Lumbar spine lateral X-ray revealed visible destruction of L2 and L3 vertebral bodies with narrowing of the L2/L3 space (Figure 1A and B). Positron emission tomography/computed tomography suggested bone metastasis from lung cancer to L2 and L3 vertebrae (Figure 1C and D). Magnetic resonance imaging showed increased signals in L2 and L3 vertebral bodies and intervertebral space (Figure 1E and F). Imaging examinations before surgery. A and B: Visible destruction of the L2 and L3 vertebral bodies, with narrowing of the L2/L3 space; C and D: Positron emission tomography/computed tomography suggest bone metastasis of lung cancer to the L2 and L3 vertebrae; E and F: Magnetic resonance imaging indicates increased signals in the L2 and L3 vertebral bodies and intervertebral space. After completing preoperative examinations, the patient underwent lumbar decompression and internal fixation surgery. During the procedure, a window was opened on the left side of the L2/L3 vertebral body, revealing necrotic tissue in the dural sac and nerve root canal (Figure 2A). The intervertebral disc tissue was removed, the upper and lower cartilaginous endplates were scraped, and autologous bone grafts were implanted. Rapid pathology results showed bone, fibrous, and unstructured tissue. Postoperative pathology revealed significant proliferation of dermal sclerotic fibrous scar tissue with necrosis (Figure 2B and C). Multiple cultures of wound secretions and intraoperative tissues were negative for bacteria. Intraoperative details and postoperative pathology. A: Internal fixation during surgery; B: Postoperative case with intervertebral bone tissue, fibrous tissue, and necrotic tissue. The orange arrow points to the site of the lesion; C: Postoperative case with obvious proliferation of dermal sclerosis fibrous scar tissue accompanied by necrosis, suggesting chronic radiation dermatitis. The blue arrow points to the site of the pathology; D: Lower end of the incision was not healing, accompanied by inflammatory exudate.