A man in his 80s fell while walking and bruised his head. He visited the neurosurgery department of a university hospital and was admitted and treated conservatively with a diagnosis of cerebral contusion, traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage and thin acute SDH in the frontal lobe. He had a medical history of cerebral thrombosis diagnosed 3 years previously, and was treated with cilostazol. He was a very active individual and took walks of about 10 km as his normal daily routine. Conservative therapy was successful, and the patient was discharged home after 6 days of hospitalization. However, from the 9th day after the injury, he gradually developed back pain, numbness and weakness in both lower limbs, and also urinary incontinence. After being examined at his previous hospital, he was judged to be experiencing the effects of disuse owing to hospitalization, and he was referred to our hospital for treatment. The next day, when he visited our hospital, he had difficulty walking owing to significant muscle weakness in both lower limbs and complained of urinary incontinence. The right lower extremities were manual muscle test (MMT) score 2, and the left lower extremities were MMT 3, with more than 6/10ths of sensory insensitivity in areas below the Th10 level. His Japanese Orthopedic Association (JOA) score1) was 3 out of 29, which included, back pain:1, leg pain:1, walking ability:1, straight leg raising:1, sensory: 0, muscle strength: 0, activities of daily living: 5, and bladder function: -6. A head computed tomography (CT) scan performed on admission displayed signs of cerebral contusion in the left frontal lobe and thin subarachnoid space enlargement in the bilateral frontal lobes, but treatment was considered to be unnecessary (Fig. 1A and B). In addition, a chest CT scan routinely performed on admission displayed a slight high-density area on the posterior aspect of the spinal cord within the spinal canal (Fig. 1C). Thoracolumbar spine MRI performed 15 days after the head trauma displayed intradural signal abnormalities from the Th 8 to S 2 level in the ventral and dorsal spinal cord and cauda equina nerves. MRI displayed a slightly high signal on T1-weighted imaging (T1WI), a high signal on T2WI, and a low signal on T2 star imaging suggesting hemosiderin on the dorsal surface of the region with an abnormal signal (Fig. 1D-G). Head MRI performed the day after this examination displayed a low signal on T1WI and a high signal on T2WI in the subarachnoid space of the bilateral frontal lobes, with a signal difference from the thoracolumbar region (Fig. 1B, D and E). No abnormal signals suggestive of obvious vascular malformation were displayed on 3 dimensional CT angiography of the thoracolumbar region. Pretreatment neuroradiological findings. A) A head CT scan of the patient on admission displayed a recovery process from a brain contusion in the left frontal lobe and a tendency toward enlargement of the bilateral subarachnoid spaces. B) Head MRI FLAIR image on admission displayed a thin bilateral chronic subdural hematoma with left-side predominance. C) A chest CT scan on admission displayed a hematoma on the dorsal spinal cord within the thoracic spinal canal. D) Thoracic spinal MRI horizontal section T1WI displayed a subdural hematoma with hyperintensity that compressed the spinal cord anteriorly. E-G) Sagittal MRI image from the lower thoracic spine to the lumbar spine. (E: T1WI, F: T2WI, G: T2* image) A subdural hematoma extending from Th8 to S2, primarily posterior to the spinal cord, with some extension into the anterior aspect. Both T1WI and T2WI displayed hyperintensity, and a hemosiderin signal was observed on the T2* image. CT: computed tomography: MRI: magnetic resonance imaging: T1WI: T1-weighted imaging: T2WI: T2-weighted imaging We hypothesized that this abnormal signal in the thoracolumbar region was a late subacute hematoma, based on the elapsed time since the fall (2 weeks), and the characteristics of the signal intensity on MRI. We hence expected the hematoma to be fluid, similar to intracranial chronic SDH, and considered the possibility that it could be cured by spinal drainage alone. A total of 22 days after the fall, a spinal tap was performed between L2-3 under fluoroscopic guidance. The initial pressure was a 10-cm water column, resulting in the flowing out of xantho-chromic fluid (Fig. 2A). A 10-cm long spinal drainage tube was then inserted caudally, and a relatively dark-colored fluid hematoma was aspirated (Fig. 2B). When 7 mL of water-soluble contrast medium (OMNIPAQUE 240) was subsequently injected into the hematoma cavity through the spinal drainage tube, only the hematoma cavity, which was distinct from the spinal fluid cavity, was visualized, suggesting an encapsulated chronic SDH (Fig. 2C and D). After the procedure, bed rest was indicated, and spinal drainage fixation pressure was started at a height of 10 cm (based on the midaxillary line), with a target drainage volume of 100 mL per day. The spinal drain was removed after a total of 330 mL of hematogenous outflow over 3 days, and the patient's back pain was reduced by about a half. Rehabilitation was started early after treatment, and the function of both lower limbs gradually improved. He became able to smoothly stand on both legs and his numbness and paresthesia in the lower extremities improved. His JOA score1) recovered to 16 points, but his urinary function did not show sufficient improvement. This was subsequently found to be owing to the effects of prostate hypertrophy and irritable bladder disease on urological examination. Subsequent urological prescriptions led to a gradual improvement in urinary dysfunction. Thoracolumbar spine MRI after treatment displayed a complete disappearance of the abnormal signal seen before treatment (Fig. 2E-G). In addition, a brain CT scan also confirmed the disappearance of enlargement of the subarachnoid space in the bilateral frontal lobes. The patient was transferred to a convalescent rehabilitation hospital for further improvement of lower limb function. Findings during the treatment procedure and post-treatment imaging findings. A) Lumbar puncture under fundoscopic guidance from between L2-3 resulted in the flowing out of xantho-chromic fluid. B) A spinal drainage tube was then inserted caudally into the hematoma cavity, and a thick, motor oil-like hematoma was aspirated. C, D) Contrast media was injected through the drainage tube and the space was found to be completely isolated from the subarachnoid space. E-G) MRI images of the thoracolumbar spine after 4 days of treatment displayed complete resolution of the subdural hematoma. (E, F: T1WI, G: T2WI) MRI: magnetic resonance imaging: T1WI: T1-weighted imaging: T2WI: T2-weighted imaging