A 30-year-old multiparous woman from Somalia region, Ethiopia in her second trimester of pregnancy who was diagnosed with isolated Pott's disease complicated by bilateral large Psoas abscesses. The diagnosis was made using lumbosacral X-ray, abdomino-pelvic ultrasound, and ultrasound-guided aspiration confirming tuberculosis. After she presented with a four-year history of chronic lower back pain, exacerbated by lower back and left lower quadrant swelling for six months, accompanied by constitutional symptoms. The patient was successfully treated with anti-tubercular therapy with no complication to her and her baby. A 30-year-old G8P7 woman from Somalia, Ethiopia, approximately 6 months amenorrheic without prenatal care, presented with a one-month history of worsening left lower quadrant pain and swelling on April 2024. The patient reports a similar, less severe, unilateral swelling and pain in the same location for the past 6 months, which has progressively worsened and become bilateral in the past month. Associated symptoms include fever, loss of appetite, and night sweats, though the patient denies significant weight loss, possibly due to her pregnancy. She also reports a four-year history of chronic lower back pain and a six-month history of lower back swelling (lumbar area). The patient denies any history of trauma, prior radiation exposure, known chronic medical illnesses, cough, shortness of breath, contact with aborts material, similar illnesses in her vicinity, or prior radiation exposure. On physical examination, the patient was conscious and appeared acutely ill (in pain), with a chronically unwell appearance. She was not in cardiorespiratory distress. Vital signs revealed a pulse rate of 110 bpm and a temperature of 38.5 °C; other vital signs were within normal limits. Chest auscultation was clear. Abdominal examination revealed a 26-week size, gravid uterus and a 10 × 4 cm tender mass in the left lower quadrant. Palpation of the lumbar area revealed a hard, non-tender mass with a gibbus deformity (as shown in Fig. 1). No other pertinent findings were noted on physical examination.Fig. 1Showing gibbus deformity.Fig. 1 Showing gibbus deformity. Laboratory investigations revealed severe anemia (hemoglobin 7 g/dL, MCV 65.8 fL), elevated inflammatory markers (ESR 110 mm/h, WBC 10,690/μL), and negative screening tests for hepatitis B, retrovirus, and syphilis. Serum electrolytes, chest x-ray, and organ function test were within normal limits. Abdominal and pelvic ultrasound revealed complex fluid collections measuring 12x8x6 cm in the right psoas muscle and 17x12x8 cm in the left psoas muscle, consistent with bilateral psoas abscesses (as shown in Fig. 2).Fig. 2Abdominal ultrasound demonstrated evidence of bilateral psoas abscesses.Fig. 2 Abdominal ultrasound demonstrated evidence of bilateral psoas abscesses. Lumbar spine X-ray revealed severe kyphotic deformity of the lower lumbar spine with complete destruction and collapse of the L4 and L5 vertebral bodies. Anterior wedging and sclerosis of the L3 vertebral body, along with an adjacent perivertebral soft tissue mass, suggest TB spondylitis with prevertebral abscess (as shown in Fig. 3). Lumbosacral MRI was not performed due to lack of availability.Fig. 3Lumbar spine X-ray demonstrated severe kyphotic deformity and destruction of the lower lumbar vertebrae (L4-L5), with wedging and sclerosis of L3 and a perivertebral soft tissue mass.Fig. 3 Lumbar spine X-ray demonstrated severe kyphotic deformity and destruction of the lower lumbar vertebrae (L4-L5), with wedging and sclerosis of L3 and a perivertebral soft tissue mass. Ultrasound-guided aspiration of the psoas muscle yielded 50 cc of cloudy, pale yellow fluid. GeneXpert testing was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) with no rifampicin resistance. Further analysis showed a negative AFB stain, negative gram stain, and a cell count of 1000 cells, 70 % of which were lymphocytes. Then we diagnosed her with isolated Pott's disease, complicated by bilateral large TB abscesses and a second-trimester pregnancy, the patient was initiated on antitubercular therapy (ATT) per WHO and national guidelines (2 RHZE/10RH) with pyridoxine supplementation at the end of April 2024. Ante-natal care (ANC) was continued throughout. At two weeks, subjective improvements (reduced fever, improved appetite, and general wellbeing) were noted despite persistent psoas collections. Follow-up at one month showed a decrease in psoas collections, which resolved completely after four months of treatment. She delivered without complications in early June 2024 and is currently continuing anti TB with good overall progress and will complete her anti TB on end of April 2025.