A 29-year-old woman, gravida 0 with a 3-year history of using etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring (NuvaRing) for contraception, presented to the emergency room with 2 days of fever, altered mental status, and body aches. Her initial imaging showed no abnormalities, including head computed tomography (CT), CT angiography, and head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). An LP was negative. A persistent headache prompted placement of an epidural blood patch 6 days later, and a subsequent MRI revealed a thrombus in the superior sagittal sinus and a cortical infarct. Use of the NuvaRing was discontinued, and the patient was treated with anticoagulants. Follow-up imaging showed chronic venothrombotic changes but no new thrombosis. The diagnosis of the condition leading to the original admission and workup was never determined. A 29-year-old woman, gravida 0 with no significant medical history, on a vaginal hormonal-based contraceptive ring for 3 years, presented to the emergency room (ER) after being found unresponsive at home, arousable with confusion, non-seizure shaking, and urinary incontinence. She had been last been seen in normal condition18 hours prior, but she had been experiencing fevers and body aches 2 days before the ER visit. She had recently returned from Colombia, South America, 3 days before the ER visit. Her initial vital signs revealed a temperature of 38.8°C (101.8°F), heart rate of 94 beats per minute, blood pressure of 111/81 mmHg, respiratory rate of 17 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 98%. During the physical examination, she was nonverbal, opened her eyes spontaneously, and displayed some shaking. She later became more somnolent and was intubated for airway protection. There was no evidence of trauma. A history was obtained from relatives and was confirmed by the patient when her cognitive function was restored. She had a past medical history of using oral contraceptives 5 years earlier for a total of 2 years, without complications. She had no history of thromboembolism. She did not use alcohol, drugs, or tobacco. There was an unconfirmed family history of possible stroke and possible antiphospholipid syndrome. Her initial laboratory results were unremarkable except for a mildly elevated white blood cell count of 11.2×109/L. Computed tomography (CT) scans of the head and entire spine showed no abnormal findings (Figure 1). CT angiogram scans of the head and neck were unremarkable. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed no evidence of intracranial hypotension or other acute pathology. Due to concerns for meningitis or encephalitis, a lumbar puncture was performed, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was sent for cytology and culture. She was started empirically on intravenous ceftriaxone, vancomycin, and acyclovir. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) studies were negative for infectious etiologies, leading to quick de-escalation of antibiotics. The toxicology screen was negative. Autoimmune screening was negative, including antinuclear antibodies, antiphospholipid antibodies, anti-double-stranded DNA, and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies. An electroencephalogram ruled out seizure activity. Other possible causes for her presenting condition were considered, including dehydration, unspecified medication reactions, subacute central nervous system infectious disorders, Parkinson’s disease, transient ischemic attacks, or even carbon monoxide poisoning. However, the diagnosis of the condition leading to the original admission and workup was never determined. The patient’s neurological status improved significantly with successful extubation after 48 hours, but she developed a positional headache that worsened upon sitting up. It was felt her presentation was consistent with a post-dural puncture headache (PDPH) due to a CSF leak, and the neurology team opted for conservative management. She continued to have a persistent headache but denied nausea, vomiting, and neck pain or stiffness. Magnetic resonance venography (MRV) was performed, with no abnormal findings, including signs of intracranial hypotension. The decision was made to proceed with a blood patch after 6 days of conservative management and no improvement. Shortly thereafter, she developed a new-onset right-sided facial droop and right-sided arm weakness. An emergency CT (Figure 2) and CT angiography (CTA) of the head revealed a sagittal sinus thrombus (Figures 3, 4). A T2 FLAIR brain MRI showed subarachnoid blood and edema in the left front lobe under the area of the CVT (Figure 5). The patient was started on a heparin drip. Given the reported family history of stroke and possible antiphospholipid syndrome, she underwent further thrombophilia workup, including Factor V Leiden mutation, Factor II (PT G20210A) mutation, antithrombin II level, lupus anticoagulant, beta-2 glycoprotein antibodies, and cardiolipin antibodies. Her workup was unremarkable and she returned to normal neurological function during the observation in the hospital. She was discharged on apixaban after 14 days. The reason for her initial admission was never determined. A 1-week follow-up MRI of the brain showed no evidence of new thrombosis, but there was evidence of chronic venothrombotic changes. At a 2-week outpatient follow-up, her neurologic manifestation had resolved completely. At 3 months after the initial presentation, she received a copper intrauterine contraceptive device. At 4 months, her head MRI was normal, and at 6 months her apixaban, given for the provoked nature of the sinus thrombosis, was discontinued (Figure 6).