We present the case of a 76-year-old woman with a 1-year history of progressive left-sided low back pain that progressed along an S1 radicular distribution and became debilitating, interfering with their activities of daily living. Specifically, the pain radiated along the left buttocks, down the posterior aspect of the leg, and into the heel. SPECT/CT demonstrated non-specific, symmetric radiotracer uptake within the bilateral SI joints. She had a positive response to two SI joint injections. The patient was ultimately treated with a SI joint fusion. This case raises questions regarding the sensitivity and specificity of SPECT/CT for SI joint pain. A minimally invasive surgery (MIS) lateral SI joint fusion using navigated and fenestrated screws can provide significant pain relief. A 76-year-old woman with no significant medical or surgical history presented to the clinic with one year of progressive left-sided low back pain which radiated to the back, buttock, leg, and heel. Initially her pain was worse in the morning and while sitting but improved with ambulation, laying down, and heat applied over her back. Over time, her pain became debilitating and she was unable to participate in many activities of daily living. She had previously received medial branch blocks at L3, L4, L5, and S1 with a transient, only partial improvement in pain. A second medial branch block did not improve her pain. On physical examination, she had normal strength to confrontation, normal sensation to light touch, and proprioception. She had a positive left-sided Flexion, Abduction and External Rotation (FABER or Patrick’s) test, positive left-sided thigh thrust, and positive Gaenslen. She also had tenderness over the posterior superior iliac spine (positive Fortin Finger Test). All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Helsinki Declaration (as revised in 2013). Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for the publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal. Preoperative radiographs and CT demonstrated bilateral SI joint degeneration (Figure 1). MRI lumbar spine demonstrated no significant central or foraminal stenosis. There was evidence of mild bilateral L3/4 and L4/5 lateral recess stenosis and multilevel degenerative disc disease. SPECT/CT demonstrated increased radiotracer uptake throughout the lumbar spine and bilateral sacroiliac joints but the distribution was symmetric across the joints (Figure 2). Full-length plain radiographs demonstrated no global imbalance, focal listhesis, or instability. Preoperative AP radiograph with evidence of bilateral SI joint degeneration (patient left side on left side of radiograph), coronal CT and axial CT demonstrating SI joint degeneration with osteophyte formation, joint space narrowing and vacuum phenomenon. AP, anteroposterior; SI, sacroiliac; CT, computed tomography. Negative SPECT/CT scan with diffuse radiotracer uptake throughout the lumbosacral region indicative of a non-specific negative SPECT/CT scan. SPECT/CT, single photon emission computed tomography scan with computed tomography. She underwent lower extremity electromyography (EMG) which demonstrated no evidence of lumbosacral radiculopathy or peripheral neuropathy. SI joint injection was performed twice under fluoroscopic guidance. She reported complete pain resolution for roughly 5 hours after the injections. Given her positive physical exam findings and positive response to two consecutive SI joint injections, it was determined that her SI joint was the primary pain generator. She was referred for physical therapy evaluation and was compliant with core exercises and postural correction but her pain continued to progress. After the failure of conservative treatment, the risks and benefits of surgery were discussed. A bone density (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry) examination was obtained and revealed no osteoporosis. She underwent an MIS lateral percutaneous SI joint fusion. After induction of general anesthesia, prone positioning on an open bottom Jackson table, prepping, and draping, a stereotactic reference frame was placed into the left iliac bone. After an intraoperative 3D image was obtained, three screw trajectories were planned. The first screw was planned 1 cm distal to the alar and sacral line intersection. The second was planned at the level of the S1 foramen and the third at the level of the S2 body. A 3-cm incision was made in line with the three trajectories. A navigated universal drill guide was used to place an O-arm pin traversing the SI joint, to the depth of the planned screw trajectory. A blunt dissector was first advanced over the pin. Then, an initial dilator was advanced over which a tubular retractor is docked to the bone. A drill and tap were used before placement of the fenestrated screws (iFuse-TORQ, SI Bone, Santa Clara, CA, USA). The screws were backfilled with demineralized bone matrix. Screw placement was confirmed with an intraoperative CT and imaged postoperatively with standard X-ray (Figure 3). Postoperative lumbar radiograph following MIS lateral percutaneous SI joint fusion, a post-operative X-ray image is shown in the coronal and sagittal views verifying intended placement of 3 fenestrated screws. MIS, minimally invasive surgery; SI, sacroiliac. The patient reported complete pain resolution at 6 weeks and 5 months postoperatively. She has returned to her baseline activities.