This report was prepared in accordance with the Case Report (CARE) guidelines. 2 A previously independent woman in her early 80s was admitted with a 2-week history of right upper quadrant (RUQ) dull pain, which was exacerbated by movement and coughing and showed a poor response to analgesic medications. She was admitted to Hebei Provincial People’s Hospital, Shijiazhuang, China, in mid-2024. She had no fever, vomiting, or jaundice. Her past history included hypertension, type 2 diabetes, chronic hepatitis B, and cholecystectomy (Table 1). Summary of the case CT: computed tomography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; NRS: numeric rating scale; US: ultrasound. On examination, she adopted a flexed posture. There was mild tenderness on palpation of the RUQ, with no percussion pain over the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae. Basic blood tests revealed normocytic anemia (Hemoglobin (Hb), 91 g/L) and severe osteoporosis (T-score, −3.8). 3 Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed postcholecystectomy status and fractures at T6–T8 and T12–L1, with a 38% loss of height in the fractured vertebral body and no obvious kyphotic deformity of the T8 vertebra. Gastroscopy revealed mild bile-reflux gastritis, whereas colonoscopy was normal. Despite 2 weeks of enemas, vasodilator therapy, osteoporosis treatment, and antianxiety treatment (intravenous injection of 30 mg papaverine hydrochloride every 8 h; intravenous infusion of 15 mg ketorolac tromethamine; enema with 110 mL glycerin; oral administration of 0.25 μg calcitriol soft capsules once daily; and intravenous infusion of 2 mg ibandronate sodium), the pain score remained greater than 7 points. Reexamination revealed that Carnett’s test was positive, suggesting abdominal wall pain rather than intra-abdominal pathology, consistent with a spinal origin. Therefore, the thoracolumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed using sagittal T1-weighted, T2-weighted, and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) sequences (slice thickness, 4 mm; field of view (FOV), 320 mm). Although T8 and L4 exhibited acute fracture edema on MRI (acute fracture was defined by hyperintense marrow edema on STIR), T8 was identified as the primary pain generator for following reasons: (1) Dermatomal correlation. The patient’s RUQ pain corresponded to the T8 dermatome (xiphoid/subcostal region). 4 In contrast, L4 innervates the lower limb and could not explain the abdominal symptoms. 5 (2) Focal tenderness. Maximal tenderness was noted over the T8 spinous process and right costovertebral angle (Figure 1), whereas L4 tenderness was less pronounced. (3) Symptom reproduction. Pain was worsened by thoracic extension and coughing. Based on risk factors for unstable fracture indicated by thoracolumbar MRI, including acute fracture signs (fractures with edema), mechanical pain patterns, severe osteoporosis, and persistent pain after 2 weeks of bed rest, as well as after informing the patient of the risks associated with conservative treatment, including infection, pressure ulcers, and thrombosis formation, surgical treatment was recommended. The patient and her family signed written informed consent for percutaneous vertebroplasty. Finally, percutaneous pedicle vertebroplasty was performed on T8 and L4 via a transpedicular approach using polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) bone cement (injection volume: T8, 2mL; L4, 7mL). Injection was stopped upon observing adequate vertebral filling or any epidural or cortical leakage.6,7 Pain scores (numeric rating scale (NRS)) 8 were as follows: baseline, 8/10; 24 h postprocedure, 1/10; discharge (day 2), 0/10; and day 28 follow-up, 0/10. Postoperative X-ray (Figure 1) confirmed cement augmentation of the T8 and L4 vertebral bodies, with partial restoration of vertebral body height. After surgery, the patient was instructed to wear a thoracolumbar orthosis for 8 weeks. She was prescribed 2 mg intravenous ibandronate sodium every 6 months, with calcium and vitamin D supplementation to prevent recurrence of osteoporosis. The patient was discharged on postoperative day 2. There were no complications (including cement leakage, infection, or neurologic injury), readmissions, or adjacent-level fractures. All clinical images (Figure 1) are original, unpublished materials from our institution. Written informed consent for publication of images was obtained from the patient. No copyrighted material from external sources was used. All patient identifier information has been removed; age is reported as range, and dates are presented only as the day of the month to protect privacy. This case report was prepared in accordance with the CARE guidelines (2013). During manuscript preparation, Ki-mi was used for language editing, translation assistance, and structural organization of the text. All medical content, data interpretation, clinical decisions, and scientific conclusions were independently generated and validated by the authors. No artificial intelligence (AI) tools were used for image processing or literature search. (a) Preoperative sagittal STIR MRI showing an acute T8 compression fracture with hyperintense marrow edema, presumed to be the pain generator corresponding to the right upper quadrant dermatome. Slice thickness, 4 mm; FOV, 320 mm; scale bar = 1 cm. (b) Preoperative sagittal STIR MRI showing an incidental L4 fracture. Slice thickness, 4 mm; FOV, 320 mm; scale bar = 1 cm. (c) Preoperative CT image showing a 38% loss of height in the fractured vertebral body and no obvious kyphotic deformity of the T8 vertebra. Scale = 2.5 cm. (d) Postoperative X-ray confirming cement augmentation of the T8 vertebral body with partial restoration of vertebral body height. Scale = 1 cm. (e) Postoperative X-ray confirming cement augmentation of the L4 vertebral body with partial restoration of vertebral body height. Scale = 1 cm. CT: computed tomography; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; STIR: short tau inversion recovery; FOV: field of view.