A 51-year-old, 5’11”, 300 lb (BMI 42) morbidly obese male patient with a history of moderate persistent asthma was scheduled for left ankle open reduction internal fixation surgery. The patient was identified as a potential difficult airway case due to a short neck, large body habitus, Mallampati 4 classification, and a large beard. With the patient’s consent, the plan was to proceed with spinal anesthesia as the preferred primary mode of anesthesia, supplemented by monitored anesthesia care (MAC) sedation for comfort. General endotracheal anesthesia was designated as the backup plan, and a popliteal sciatic/saphenous nerve block was planned for postoperative analgesia. The patient was placed in a sitting position in the operating room, and monitors were applied. The L4-5 interspace was approximated using the top of the iliac crest as a landmark. The midline was identified and marked using a curvilinear ultrasound probe. The L3-4 interspace was selected for initial needle entry, and after topical infiltration with 1% lidocaine, a 20G × 3.5” BD Quincke spinal needle “Super Introducer” was inserted approximately 5 cm deep to engage the interspinous ligament. A 25G × 4.7” BD Whitacre spinal needle was then inserted through the Quincke introducer. When CSF flow was not observed in the Whitacre spinal needle, it was removed, and the 3.5” Quincke “Super Introducer” was cautiously advanced an additional 0.8 cm. These steps were repeated several times until CSF flow was detected in the Whitacre spinal needle, indicating successful entry into the dural sac. A total of 1.4 cc of 0.75% hyperbaric bupivacaine was injected, with confirmation of birefringent CSF flow in the syringe at both the midpoint and end of the spinal injection (Video 1, Video 2). “Super Introducer” = A 3.5" (8.9 cm) 20G Quincke spinal needle that is longer than the standard 1-3/8" (3.5 cm) 20G introducer typically included in spinal kits. NNG, needle-over-needle guidance NNG, needle-over-needle guidance The patient had an uneventful course under spinal anesthesia and MAC sedation. At the conclusion of the surgery, an ultrasound-guided popliteal sciatic and saphenous nerve block was performed to aid in managing postoperative pain.