This patient is a 58-year-old woman with a history of spinal dysraphism that was diagnosed during childbirth. Due to her family’s low sociocultural status, she did not receive timely treatment. She was referred to our institution because of a persistent increase in volume in the lumbar region, accompanied by a continuous and intense pulsating headache. An magnetic resonance imaging revealed a giant spinal defect caused by lumbar dysraphism. A surgical rotational flap procedure and untethering of the spinal cord using microsurgical techniques were performed. During follow-up, the patient experienced a complete recovery of her clinical symptoms. This patient is a 58-year-old woman who presented with a mass in her lower back during childbirth. Unfortunately, she did not receive timely treatment due to a low socioeconomic status. She was referred to our institution for an intermittently increased lumbar mass, accompanied by a continuous, intermittent pulsatile headache. Clinical examination revealed bilateral lower extremities hypotrophy with proximal paresis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed the posterior lumbar defect at the L3 level, with a large sac protrusion accompanied by a tethered cord [Figure 1]. Lumbosacral spine MRI. (a) MRI-PD, with hyper-intense CSF in the dural sac. L3 defect with dysraphism type myelomeningocele 89 × 66 × 58 mm, accompanied by a tethered cord (b) MRI-T1 with contrast, slightly reinforcing the dural sac. MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging, PD: Proton density, CSF: Cerebrospinal fluid. A transverse incision in relation to Langerhans lines was performed over the dural sac while circularly preserving the lumbar muscles to obtain sufficient plane dissection for the transposition of the skin flaps, followed by a midline incision of the muscular plane and a circular dissection plane that maintains the dural sac. Preserving the thin muscular layers is primordial for covering the defect and reducing the percentage of CSF leaks. A vertical incision over the dural sac was accomplished [Figure 2]. In this case, the spinal nerves were untethered from the dural sac. Previous electrostimulation was applied over the spinal roots before detaching them. The dural sac was dissected and removed, followed by a running stitch using 4-0 Prolene. Then, a primary closure with apposition of the muscular layers was performed in a usual fashion [Figure 3]. (a) Large defect, 18 × 12 cm. (b and c) Transverse incision over the lumbar defect, followed by a circumferential dissection and preservation of the lumbar muscular layers, is performed. (a) Neural tube defect, arrowhead point neural fiber attached to dural sac. (b) After the release, the fundus of the dural sac is visualized. (c) Dissection is realized between the muscular layers and the dural sac, followed by a primary closure over the dural defect with a continuous running stitch with Prolene 4-0. (d) Opposition of the muscular layers is performed, covering the defect to decrease the rate of CSF leak. CSF: Cerebrospinal fluid. After repairing the dural defect, the dissection is extended, and the direction and elevation of the fasciocutaneous flap with a rostral and caudal base are measured to maximize and preserve the adequate irrigation supply of the flap’s borders. Advancement of the flap in the caudal-rostral direction is achieved to cover the resultant defect over the midline. A cephalic incision is performed. In this manner, the tissue will be preserved in symmetry, and the fascial, subcutaneous, and cellular flaps will be adequately placed, taking care to avoid too much flap tension. A Penrose drain can be placed at the surgical site to prevent the accumulation of exudative inflammatory response secondary to the subcutaneous dissection and to reduce the infection rate [Figures 4 and 5]. (a) A midline mark is realized for a more accurate flap precision. (b) Then, an incision is performed. (c) It is important to use continuous flap mobilization to avoid inadequate overcutting of the flaps. (d) An extension at the level of the rostral flaps can be marked and cut to extend the resection of the rostral remnant tissue. A midline stitch can be placed in the midportion of the rostral and caudal flaps. (a) After the approximation of both flaps, an additional mark is realized until it is connected to the base of the flap. (b) The base of the rostral flap is cut until we get adequate flap tension (the blue dotted line marks the cuts of the caudal flap that can be removed to re-approximate the rostral and caudal flaps, taking care to follow the symmetry of the flaps. (c) Approximation of the rostral-caudal flap with simple stitches is realized to alleviate some tension of the flaps. Previous Penrose drainage was left. Then, the subdermal approximation is realized with a 3-0 monocrystal with a running stitch (d), and separate simple stitches with nylon 3-0 are placed. The patient was discharged 72 h after surgery. The patient was followed for 12 months with no clinical evidence of headache [Figure 6]. (a and b) Sagittal MRI at 6 months with evidence of defect correction, tethered still present. MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging.