A 68-year-old female diagnosed with high-grade intraductal breast carcinoma was admitted for radical mastectomy and axillary lymph node dissection. She was a known case of bronchiectasis with chronic obstructive respiratory disease and cardiac function with concentric hypertrophy. Thus, the surgery was planned under regional anesthesia (thoracic segmental spinal anesthesia), considering the risk-benefit ratio of general anesthesia. A pre-anesthetic checkup was done, and routine investigations like clinical blood count electrolytes, kidney function test, electrocardiogram (ECG), and two-dimensional (2D) echo were advised, including a computer tomography (CT) scan of the chest to see the severity of bronchiectasis and a respiratory physician opinion was taken (Figure 1). Red arrows showing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease lung; Yellow arrows showing kyphoscoliotic spine. Written informed consent was taken explaining the risk and type of anesthesia under the American Society of Anaesthesiology physical status III. The patient was informed to stay nil per oral for six hours before surgery and to continue nebulization as advised by the respiratory physician. The patient was shifted to the operation theatre. A wide bore intravenous line of 18 gauge was secured on the right upper extremity that is opposite to the operative site. All five ASA I monitors were attached, and vitals were checked - heart rate of 86/min, blood pressure of 144/88 mmHg, a saturation of 92% in the room air, with oxygen at two liters maintaining 96%. Injection hydrocortisone 100 mg and injection ondansetron 4 mg were given intravenously. Thoracic segmental spinal anesthesia was performed in the right lateral position under all aseptic precautions at T4-5 interspace after infiltration with 1 ml of plain lignocaine 2% as a local anesthetic. Using a 25G quincke spinal needle, a subarachnoid block was given with a combination of 1 ml of 0.5% isobaric bupivacaine and 25 mcg of fentanyl after confirming the free flow of clear cerebrospinal fluid. The patient was turned to the supine position immediately, and the oxygen mask was attached. The patient was vigilantly monitored vitally till the required sensory and motor blockade was achieved at T1-8 level within 8 minutes of performing the regional block. Injection glycopyrrolate, injection atropine, and injection mephentermine were kept loaded and handy in case needed for bradycardia or hypotension. T1-T8 was completed within 8 minutes of the block, and the case was started. The vitals were very stable when suddenly, after 50 minutes, the patient complained of hoarseness of voice and was counseled and cautiously monitored. There we noticed some breathing difficulties for the patient, and within 5 minutes, patient saturation dropped from 96% to 92% to 85% to 70%, and heart rate dropped to 49/min. Immediately oxygen mask was held, and an injection of atropine 0.6 mg was given. We planned to intubate the patient without any delay. The patient’s saturation increased, and he was intubated with cuffed endotracheal tube (ETT) number seven. After bilateral air entry was checked, the tube was fixed to 20. After that, the surgeon continued surgery for the next two hours. But to our surprise, the patient didn't require anesthesia to maintain the tube. Just oxygen was kept with air at two liters. The patient was awake, cooperative, and following commands. At the end of the surgery, the patient started moving his hands and legs, for which we had to start sevoflurane for the last 10 minutes. After surgery, the patient was extubated, driving all four limbs and following commands. The patient was observed for two hours post-op recovery and followed up for three days for any other neurological deficit. The thoracic segmental spinal anesthesia plan was executed well in the patient at the T4-5 level. The level of T1-T8 was achieved within 8 minutes. The patient complained of hoarseness of voice after 50 minutes. The patient got restless and complained of breathing difficulty at 60 minutes; thus, oxygen flow was increased to six liters. At 60 minutes, SpO2 suddenly started dropping to 70%, and the heart rate dropped to 45/min. The mask with circuit was held with 100% oxygen with which saturation started to increase. Injection atropine 0.6 mcg was given to treat bradycardia. At 60 minutes, the patient was intubated, and after getting vitally stable, surgery was continued. The patient was maintained on oxygen and air; no other anesthetic agents were required to maintain the tube for the patient. Surgery was continued for two hours. After three hours, the patient was extubated, conscious, following commands, and vitally stable with a heart rate of 82/min, blood pressure (BP) of 132/76 mmHg, and maintaining saturation of 100%.