This study was approved by the Ethics Review Committee of the Second Hospital of Lanzhou University (approval no. 2024A-588), and written informed consent was obtained from the patient. An adolescent patient presented with a 6-hour history of pain in the lower back and right hip accompanied by numbness and weakness in both lower limbs. Six hours before admission, the patient had fallen from a height, resulting in the aforementioned symptoms but no headache, dizziness, vomiting, hematemesis, abdominal pain, or abdominal distention. Imaging revealed multiple transverse lumbar process fractures, fractures of the upper and lower ramus of the right pubic bone, comminuted fractures of the bilateral root bones, and bilateral distal fractures of the second metatarsal. The patient had no history of hypertension, diabetes, or cardiovascular disease. On admission, vital signs were as follows: temperature, 36.8°C; pulse rate, 96 beats/minute; respiratory rate, 18 breaths/minute; blood pressure, 110/74 mmHg; and weight, 60 kg. Physical examination showed a normal physiological spinal curvature without obvious deformities, tenderness from L4 to S1 with marked percussion pain, and muscle strength of grade 0 in both lower limbs. Sensation in the lower legs and soles was significantly reduced, and the patient had incontinence. The mean visual analogue scale (VAS) score for low back pain was 10. Laboratory tests revealed a white blood cell count of 7.76 × 109/L, red blood cell count of 4.12 × 1012/L, hemoglobin concentration of 128 g/L, platelet count of 102 × 109/L, and C-reactive protein concentration of 113.45 mg/L. Lumbar spine computed tomography confirmed an L5 vertebral burst fracture, spinal stenosis, and multiple transverse lumbar process fractures, while lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging identified an L5 burst fracture with posterior compression causing spinal stenosis, cauda equina nerve compression, backward displacement, and right intervertebral foramen compression stenosis (see Figure 1). Preoperative computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. (a) Axial and sagittal computed tomography views of the lumbar vertebral body show bone fragments from the L5 vertebral body protruding into the center of the spinal canal, with a spinal canal occupancy rate of 82.35% and an anterior edge height ratio of the injured vertebra of 53% and (b) magnetic resonance sagittal and axial images show spinal stenosis at the L5 level caused by prominent fracture fragments. The mass ratio of the spinal canal was calculated as follows. First, the sagittal diameters of the upper and lower adjacent spinal canals were measured and recorded as “a” and “b,” respectively. Next, the minimum middle sagittal diameter of the injured vertebral spinal canal was measured and recorded as “c.” Finally, the spinal canal occupancy rate was calculated as [1 − 2c/(a + b)] × 100%. The height ratio of the anterior edge of the injured vertebral body was calculated as follows. First, the height of the anterior edge of the injured vertebral body was measured and recorded as “a.” Next, the heights of the anterior edges of the upper and lower adjacent vertebral bodies were measured and recorded as “b” and “c,” respectively. Finaly, the height ratio of the anterior edge of the injured vertebra was calculated as [2a/(b + c)] × 100%.