We report a case of SSDH in a 78-year-old male, diagnosed after a percutaneous dorsal column stimulator trial for chronic postherpetic thoracic neuralgia. The patient presented with days of weakness and gait instability, 1 month post-SCS trial. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the thoracic and lumbar spine revealed an intrathecal lower lumbar T1/short tau inversion recovery (STIR) signal, fluid-fluid level, and cauda equina enhancement suggestive of a subarachnoid hemorrhage, as well as a well-circumscribed, compressive T2–T3 subdural collection consistent with hematoma, later confirmed by pathology. Notably, bleeding occurred in the absence of coagulopathy or dural puncture. A spinal angiogram ruled out vascular lesions. The patient underwent a successful laminectomy and intradural hematoma evacuation, resulting in gradual functional recovery. A 78-year-old man with a history of shingles presented to Stony Brook University Hospital with complaints of generalized weakness and multiple ground-level falls. The patient reported days of dizziness, trouble walking, and generalized weakness that resulted in three ground-level falls onto his lower back. He also had left gluteal pain, but denied numbness, tingling, or bowel or bladder incontinence. About 9 months before his presentation, the patient developed a shingles infection in his left thoracic region that left him with residual, chronic pain in the T4–T7 distribution. After failing a course of neuropathic pain medications, the patient received an uncomplicated interlaminar epidural steroid injection in the T4–T5 space. He experienced minor relief with the steroid injection and opted for an SCS trial. A pre-SCS, non-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the thoracic spine revealed no significant abnormalities. One month before presentation, the patient was fully consented for SCS and subsequently underwent an uneventful trial of percutaneous dorsal column stimulation. Under fluoroscopic guidance, entry was made at the T11–T12 space, and leads were placed at the T3 (right) and T6 (left) spinal level. Fluoroscopy confirmed proper placement of the SCS leads in the epidural space without signs of dural puncture or cerebrospinal fluid leak. At a mid-trial check 2 days later, the patient reported mild improvement in pain with no complications. At follow-up 6 days after the SCS trial, he requested postponing permanent implantation, though he reported no new symptoms. Other significant past medical history includes hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus type 2, coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and transcatheter aortic valve replacement about 2 years before his presentation, but he discontinued aspirin use for over 6 months before the SCS trial. He denied any personal and family history of coagulopathy or recent anticoagulant use. On examination, the patient showed signs of left leg weakness, gait instability, and urinary retention. Preoperative labs were notable for a low serum sodium level of 128 mEq/L and a normal platelet count, prothrombin time, and activated partial thromboplastin time. He underwent an MRI scan of the lumbar spine (Figure 1), which showed intrathecal lower lumbar T1/short tau inversion recovery (STIR) signal, a fluid-fluid level, and cauda equina enhancement suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage. A reflex MRI scan of the thoracic spine showed a well-circumscribed, compressive T2–T3 subdural collection (Figure 2). Preoperative MRI of the lumbar spine showing a fluid-fluid level with cauda equina enhancement in the L4–L5 region, suggestive of a subarachnoid hemorrhage. (A) T1-weighted sagittal view with gadolinium. (B) T2-weighted sagittal view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. Preoperative MRI of the thoracic spine showing a well-circumscribed lesion (2.08 cm × 0.94 cm) occupying the T2–T3 subdural space. (A) T2-weighted sagittal view. (B) T2-weighted axial view. (C) T1-post gadolinium weighted sagittal view. (D) T1-post gadolinium weighted axial view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. The patient underwent emergent laminectomy and intradural decompression. The patient’s dura was notably slightly hardened and yellowish, akin to the appearance of the outer dural membrane in a non-acute intracranial SDH. A sample of the excised lesion sent for pathology showed blood, with necrosis of many white blood cells, and fibrovascular tissue, with mild chronic inflammation, all consistent with a hematoma. Further workup with spinal angiogram revealed no vascular abnormalities. Postoperative MRI scans (Figure 3) confirmed complete excision of the hematoma and relief of the thoracic compression, and lumbar imaging showed decreased T1/STIR signal in the lumbar spine, consistent with resolving subarachnoid hemorrhage. The patient developed intermittent urge incontinence but gradually recovered function. He was discharged for 6 weeks of spinal rehabilitation. Postoperative MRI of the thoracic spine confirming hematoma evacuation. (A) T2-weighted sagittal view. (B) T1-post gadolinium weighted sagittal view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. At a 6-week clinic follow-up visit, the patient reported an improvement in his left leg weakness, gait imbalance, and mobility. He complained of persistent postherpetic thoracic pain and bladder and bowel incontinence but denied saddle anesthesia. Follow-up X-ray showed no change in the thoracic spine alignment. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for the publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.