A 37-year-old female patient with aggressive vertebral hemangioma presented with sudden loss of muscle strength in both lower limbs (grade I–II) and difficulty in urination and defecation. Magnetic resonance imaging and digital subtraction angiography confirmed a vascular tumor within and around the L4 vertebra, causing cauda equina compression. The treatment involved staged vascular embolization (of the third lumbar artery and branches of the sacral artery) combined with L4 vertebroplasty, laminectomy decompression, and pedicle screw fixation. Postoperative pain was immediately relieved. After 3 months of rehabilitation, muscle strength in both lower limbs recovered to grade 3, with significant improvement in spontaneous urination and defecation. Imaging studies showed complete relief of spinal canal compression. A 37-year-old woman sought treatment from a spinal surgeon because of sudden pain and weakness in both legs and a 6-day history of inability to urinate or defecate. Physical examination revealed decreased strength in the key muscles of both legs: grade II for the iliopsoas, grade II for the quadriceps femoris, and grade I for the tibialis anterior and gastrocnemius. The patient also exhibited reduced sensation in the saddle area. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple masses of varying sizes in the L4 vertebra, spinal canal, and surrounding tissues, which appeared as uniformly high signals on T2-weighted images and short TI inversion recovery (STIR) sequences, indicating hemangiomas (Figures 1A–D). The extramedullary subdural hemangioma exhibited “double-eyed” signs and signs of vascular leakage (Figure 1D). Computed tomography angiography (CTA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) confirmed an L4 segment arteriovenous fistula with blood supply from the third lumbar artery and a branch of the sacral middle artery (Figures 1E,F), along with intraspinal hemangioma masses (Figure 1H). The patient was diagnosed with aggressive VH and incomplete paraplegia. Preoperative imaging data of the patient. (A–D) Preoperative MRI images (E), preoperative DSA image, and (F–H) preoperative CTA image. During the first phase of the vascular intervention embolization, two femoral artery puncture super-selective embolization procedures targeting the lumbar artery and sacral artery branches at the third lumbar vertebra level were performed. However, the patient's symptoms persisted, and neurological function did not improve within 24 h post-procedure. The lack of symptomatic improvement following super-selective embolization suggested that spinal cord compression persisted. During the second-stage surgery, the patient underwent spinal canal decompression and pedicle fixation combined with vertebroplasty. During the procedure, the patient was placed in a prone position under general anesthesia. The L4 vertebral body was located, a disinfected bandage was spread, and a posterior median lumbar approach incision was made to expose the L3–5 area. Under the guidance of a C-arm machine, the pedicles on both sides of L3 and L5 were successively located, opened, and tapped. The pedicle screws were screwed in for fixation, and a pre-bent titanium rod was installed. Vertebral fixation surgery was performed first to minimize the impact on vertebral stability as much as possible. Subsequently, an L4 total laminectomy and decompression were performed, the ligamentum flavum was removed, and the dural sac was pulled to one side using a nerve hook to explore the spinal canal. Malformed and tortuous blood vessels were observed in the spinal canal. Sufficient hemostasis was achieved after resection of the arteriovenous malformation. A polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) injection pusher was inserted along each side of the L4 pedicle. Subsequently, 2 ml of bone cement was injected into each side of the vertebral body under direct vision, combined with C-arm machine fluoroscopy. After the bone cement solidified, fluoroscopy was performed again to confirm the position of the pedicle screw and PMMA. The area was subsequently rinsed with saline, one drainage tube was placed, and the wound was sutured layer by layer. The patient's pain in both lower extremities was completely relieved postoperatively. Drug treatment included methylprednisolone and mecobalamin for nerve repair and ibuprofen and pregabalin for pain management. Imaging reexamination with DSA (Figures 2A,B), x-ray (Figures 2C,D), CTA (Figures 2E,F), and MRI (Figures 2G,H) scans confirmed that the intraspinal and paraspinal aneurysms had completely disappeared. The rehabilitation treatment plan (implemented 2 weeks after surgery) included lower extremity motor function training, balance ability exercise, medium frequency pulsed electrical stimulation therapy, pneumatic therapy, and biofeedback training for urinary and fecal functions. Postoperative imaging data of the patient. (A,B) postoperative DSA images, (C,D) postoperative x-ray anteroposterior and lateral views, (E,F) postoperative CTA images, and (G,H) postoperative MRI images. The pain in both lower limbs disappeared postoperatively, and rehabilitation training was initiated 2 weeks later. After 3 months of rehabilitation, follow-up examinations revealed that the lower-limb muscle strength recovered to grade Ⅲ and that the residual bladder urine volume was <50 ml. Moreover, MRI revealed complete relief of spinal canal compression with no recurrence.