This case series included two human body donors identified in the gross anatomy laboratory at Midwestern University with unique anatomical variations in the branching patterns of the lumbar plexus. Both donors were initially dissected during gross anatomy courses and then dissected more intricately by our team, including both a superficial and deep dissection relative to the psoas major muscle. This study was determined not to meet the definition of human subjects research as defined in 45 CFR 46.102 by the Institutional Review Board of Midwestern University. Case 1 LFCN received contributions only from the L2 spinal nerve, with a communicating branch to the femoral nerve. In the first case, an 83-year-old male presented with an atypical arrangement in the branching pattern of the anterior rami forming LFCN. The LFCN was composed exclusively of two separate branches from L2, forming as the L2 anterior ramus bifurcated into the femoral nerve and LFCN (Figure 1c-1d). L3 and L4 anterior rami both contributed to the femoral nerve as expected, which in turn provided additional nerve communications with the LFCN. Additionally, the ilioinguinal nerve was noticeably smaller than the iliohypogastric nerve (Figure 1c-1d). (a-c) Image Credit: Authors, created using Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Inc., San Jose, CA, USA) and Fresco (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) LFCN: lateral femoral cutaneous nerve Case 2 LFCN receives contributions from the L1 to L3 spinal nerves and may have supernumerary branches. In the second case, an 84-year-old female (Figure 1e-1f), the LFCN received a contribution from L1, in addition to the typical L2-L3 contributions, which traveled inferiorly before joining at the level of L5. The L1 contributions descended inferiorly, parallel to the genitofemoral nerve, before joining with another branch of LFCN that originated from L3 and diving deep into the ilioinguinal ligament. These branches subsequently separated into distinct branches and ultimately innervated discrete areas in the thigh. The femoral nerve was also composed of multiple individual nerve branches of L2-L4 coursing together inferiorly and lateral to the psoas major muscle, which branched off more proximally than usual in the pelvis. In addition, a thin branch of the femoral nerve coursed inferiorly parallel to the obturator nerve and medial to the psoas major muscle.