We present a 63-year-old man with a past medical history of cervical and lumbar spine stenosis status post-C3-C5 anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) 30 years ago and posterior spinal fusion of L4-S1. The patient presented to the orthopedic office with worsening pain radiating to both shoulders and lower extremities. Preoperative MRI and CT demonstrated moderate C2-C3, severe C5-C6, and mild to moderate C6-T2 central spinal stenosis suggestive of adjacent segment disease. A decision was made to proceed with cervical spinal decompression C5-C7 laminectomies and posterior instrumented spinal fusion from C2-T2. The patient’s surgery was technically successful without immediate post-surgical complications. The patient had an uncomplicated hospital course and was discharged on the third postoperative day without any motor or sensory deficits and with pain well controlled on oral analgesics. CT of the cervical spine was performed on the first day following surgery using 1.25 mm thick helical axial slices with coronal and sagittal reconstruction without and with iterative MAR post-processing (iMAR; Siemens Healthineers, Forchheim, Germany). Initial review of the pre-processed images demonstrated significant streak artifacts extending from previously placed ACDF anterior fixation hardware and dental hardware. After post-processing, there was a marked reduction in these streak artifacts, including those from dental hardware not included in the field of view. Furthermore, there was preservation of morphology and details of the hardware, including the crevices of the spinal rod and pedicle screw interface. In addition to expected post-surgical changes, the iMAR-processed images demonstrated hypodense lucencies surrounding the lateral mass screws at multiple cervical spine levels (Figure 1A). The lucencies measured approximately up to 3-4 mm orthogonal to the pedicle screws, and density measurements of approximately 60-120 Hounsfield units. Additional lucencies were seen surrounding the previously placed ACDF hardware (Figure 2A). The differential diagnosis for the periprosthetic lucencies included artifact or hardware loosening. Given the immediate postoperative nature, additional differential diagnoses of acute infection or severe osteoporotic bone were also considered. However, these periprosthetic lucencies were not visualized on the images without iMAR post-processing (Figures 1B-2B). Therefore, these lucencies were thought to represent iMAR-generated artifacts. Figure 1A shows lucencies surrounding the pedicle screws at the C6 level (red arrows), mimicking findings associated with hardware loosening. These do not persist on axial CT images without iMAR post-processing (yellow arrows in Figure 1B) and the normal interface between the pedicle screws and osseous structures is shown. These findings are consistent with iMAR-related artifacts. iMAR: iterative metal artifact reduction Figure 2A shows an iMAR post-processed image with lucencies surrounding the anterior cervical spine fixation hardware (red arrow). These lucencies do not persist on sagittal CT images without iMAR post-processing (yellow arrow, Figure 2B) but rather demonstrate normal trabecular bone with fairly minimal overlying streak artifact. These findings suggest the absence of hardware loosening and are consistent with iMAR-generated artifacts. iMAR: iterative metal artifact reduction