A 15-year-old girl received treatments in the Emergency Department of Neurology of Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, in May 2024. She was treated with anticoagulation for cerebral venous sinus thrombosis developed into an intraspinal hematoma after a lumbar puncture. She had cranial hypertension and was finally treated for the removal of an intraspinal hematoma. During the operation for removal of the intraspinal hematoma, the lumbar puncture needle penetrated the dorsal and ventral dura, presumably puncturing the anterior vertebral venous plexus. Due to the rapid release of a large amount of cerebrospinal fluid, negative pressure developed in the spinal canal, resulting in massive bleeding and intraspinal hematoma. She had neurological impairment before emergency surgery, but the neurological dysfunction improved after surgery, and no sequelae remained. A 15-year-old girl with CVST and intracranial hypertension underwent decompressive therapy, anticoagulation, and an LP. The initial symptoms included suddenly losing consciousness and falling to the ground, landing on the back of the head, and about 10 seconds later regaining consciousness, without any other symptoms such as nausea or vomiting. It was not treated at that time. Three days later, the headache worsened and was accompanied by vomiting. Imaging examination indicated thromboses in the superior sagittal sinus, rectus sinus, a large cerebral vein, right transverse sinus, sigmoid sinus and bilateral superficial veins of the frontal and parietal lobes. Mannitol and diuresis were routinely administered to reduce intracranial pressure. Subcutaneous injection of enoxaparin sodium was given for anticoagulation. The initial pressure of the lumbar puncture in the outer hospital was 350–360 mmH2O, and it was colorless and turbid. Later, she was transferred to Xuanwu Hospital. To evaluate her intracranial hypertension, she underwent lumbar puncture in the emergency neurology department. A total of 3 tests were conducted due to changes in vomiting. The cerebrospinal fluid pressures were 350 mmH2O (May 6th), 170 mmH2O (May 11th), and 270 mmH2O (May 17th). Appropriate amounts of cerebrospinal fluid were collected for examination (specific quantity unknown). Traumatic No. 9 lumbar puncture needles were used. After LP (May 18th), she had headache and lumbosacral and lower-extremity pain, with preserved motor function. After differentiation from diseases such as myelitis and spinal vascular malformations, the medical history, physical examination, and MRI revealed lumbar subdural hematomas, prompting urgent evacuation of the intraspinal hematoma (Figure 1). Microscopic video revealed a distended dural sac with elevated tension. There were 3 stitches visible in the dorsal dural membrane. Upon dural incision, a subdural hematoma was observed with compression of the cauda equina. After hematoma evacuation, ventral dural stitches were aligned with their dorsal counterparts (Figure 2).