A 53-year-old female patient presenting with lower back pain 5 days before admission was admitted to the Infectious Disease Department of Kyung Hee University Hospital in the Republic of Korea in March 2025. She reported worsening pain in the right lower back, accompanied by throbbing pain extending to the back of the right thigh. The Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for pain was 8 on the day of admission. The patient experienced chills before the onset of back pain. The patient had a medical history of lumbar spine disc herniation and mild intermittent pain. The patient did not take any medication. She had undergone an appendectomy 15 years prior. The initial vital signs were blood pressure, 115/60 mmHg; pulse rate, 116 beats/min; respiratory rate, 22 breaths/min; temperature, 38.2 °C, pulse oximetry, 95% on room air. Neurologic deficits were not observed in the neurologic examination. Laboratory examination revealed a white blood cell count of 14.86 × 109/L (88.5% neutrophils) and a C-reactive protein was 32.0 mg/dL. Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), and Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) levels were slightly elevated at 37 IU/L, 63 IU/L, and 139 IU/L, respectively. The kidney function test results were within normal limits. Chest computed tomography revealed no abnormalities. Two sets of blood cultures were performed at the time of fever using BD Bactec Plus Aerobic/F and BD Bactec Plus Anaerobic/F bottles and a Bactec FX Instrument (Becton Dickinson, Sparks, MD, USA) on the day of admission. The patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine. The MRI revealed an epidural abscess at the right posterior lateral aspect of the lumbar spine at the L4-5 level, measuring 0.6 × 1.2 × 2.7 cm, as well as infectious arthritis at the right L4-L5 and L5-S1 levels (Figure 1). The patient was initially prescribed with intravenous ceftriaxone (2 g per d). On the 2nd day of hospitalization, the patient underwent decompressive laminotomy and posterior instrumentation. Additionally, the patient underwent irrigation and drainage to remove the epidural abscess. On the day of surgery, two aerobic culture bottles showed culture-positive signals, and Gram-negative rods were observed. The culture-positive blood sample was sub-cultured on a Brucellar blood agar plate at 35 °C for 48 h under aerobic conditions. The obtained colonies were used for further identification using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS; Bruker Daltonik GmbH, Leipzig, Germany) with Biotyper software 2.3 and an MBT 6903 MSP library using a direct method. Haemophilus influenzae was identified. Antibiotic susceptibility testing was tested using the disc diffusion method. H. influenzae was susceptible to ampicillin, ampicillin/sulbactam, cefotaxime, ciprofloxacin, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. Since H. influenzae was susceptibility to ampicillin, β-lactamase testing was not performed. No bacteria were cultured from the four surgical specimens. The patient did not have a fever from the day after surgery. The lower back and right thigh pain gradually improved, except for occasional acute pain that occurred once or twice daily. On the 11th day of hospitalization, the patient was discharged without complications. The patient was administered levofloxacin (750 mg per d) for 76 days after discharge. Until one week after discharge, the patient reported improvement but still experienced throbbing pain in the right thigh and back pain. At the four-week follow-up, the patient reported no back pain or throbbing sensation in the leg, even without pain medication. Forty days after admission, the WBC count and CRP levels returned to within the reference interval range. The clinical course and antibiotic treatment of a case patient are shown in Figure 2.