A 47-year-old woman visited a hospital complaining of a three-week progressive headache and epistaxis that she had experienced a week earlier. Additionally, she experienced irregular menstruation for one year. To date, no remarkable family history has been reported. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a 20 × 15 × 13 mm tumor extending from the sphenoid sinus to the suprasellar region (Figure 1). Laboratory data indicated an elevated prolactin level of 169 ng/mL and a low thyroid-stimulating hormone level of 0.036 μIU/mL (Table 1), whereas the levels of other pituitary hormones remained normal. The visual function also remained intact. The patient presented with diplopia due to right oculomotor and abducens nerve palsy. Three weeks later, she developed right facial numbness and left oculomotor nerve palsy. On the 23rd day after her first visit, the patient underwent partial tumor resection using the transsphenoidal approach. Histopathological examination revealed rhabdoid cells with an eosinophilic cytoplasm and inclusion-like structures. Moreover, immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the absence of SMARCB1/INI1 expression (Figure 2), confirming the diagnosis of AT/RT. The patient was referred to our institution on postoperative day 8 for adjuvant therapy. Upon admission, she was diagnosed with diabetes insipidus. Additional MRI revealed no evidence of spinal lesions, and cerebrospinal fluid cytology was negative. However, the rapid growth of the residual tumor in the suprasellar region (Figure 3A) led to progressive bilateral visual impairment. A and B: T1-weighted (A) and T2-weighted (B) sagittal MRI scans showing a mass lesion extending from the sphenoid sinus to the suprasellar region (arrows). C and D: Gadolinium-enhanced sagittal (C) and coronal (D) MRI scans showing increased mass enhancement with cavernous sinus invasion (arrows). MRI: magnetic resonance imaging LDH: lactate dehydrogenase, GH: growth hormone, TSH: thyroid-stimulating hormone, ACTH: adrenocorticotropic hormone, LH: luteinizing hormone, FSH: follicle-stimulating hormone, ADH: antidiuretic hormone A and B: Hematoxylin and eosin staining showing scattered rhabdoid cells with acidophilic cytoplasm and inclusion body-like structures. C: Immunostaining revealing negativity for SMARCB1/INI1. D: MIB-1 index is 50%-60%. A: Gadolinium-enhanced MRI just before chemotherapy revealing regrowth of the residual tumor. B: Gadolinium-enhanced MRI 37 days after the induction of chemotherapy demonstrating rapid progression of the tumor. C: Gadolinium-enhanced MRI after radiation therapy showing a significant reduction in tumor size. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging Chemotherapy with ifosfamide (1,900 mg/m2), carboplatin (400 mg/m2), and etoposide (130 mg/m2) (ICE regimen) was administered at this time. An MRI performed 10 days after the initiation of chemotherapy revealed tumor shrinkage, accompanied by improvement in symptoms. However, rapid tumor regrowth was observed 37 days after the initiation of chemotherapy (Figure 3B), resulting in bilateral visual impairment and right external ophthalmoplegia. The second course of ICE chemotherapy (80% dose due to bone marrow suppression) was administered concurrently with irradiation (54 Gy/30 fractions) targeting the sphenoid sinus and suprasellar regions. Following radiotherapy, significant tumor shrinkage was noted (Figure 3C), and visual impairment improved. The third course of ICE chemotherapy (60% dose for the same reason) was administered. The patient remained progression-free for some time; however, 191 days after the initial chemotherapy, she developed dysarthria and pain in the right lower limb. MRI revealed dissemination to the left frontal lobe and lumbar spinal cord (Figures 4A, 4B); meanwhile, whole-body computed tomography confirmed the presence of multiple pulmonary metastases (Figures 4C, 4D). Radiotherapy was administered to the left frontal lobe (35 Gy/5 fractions) and lumbar lesions (39 Gy/13 fractions), along with oral temozolomide (90 mg/m²) and intrathecal delivery of methotrexate (9 mg/m²) and cytarabine (30 mg/m²). Radiotherapy was also administered to the rapidly enlarging lesion in the right lower lobe of the lung but was discontinued at 33 Gy/11 fractions due to worsening pleural effusion. Subsequently, tumor progression could not be controlled. The patient died 254 days (36 weeks) after the introduction of the ICE regimen. A and B: Gadolinium-enhanced MRI six months after initial treatment demonstrating dissemination in the left frontal lobe and the lumbar spinal cord. C and D: Computed tomography six months after initial treatment revealing multiple lung metastases (arrows). MRI: magnetic resonance imaging