A 27-year-old male presented with severe low back pain and bilateral lower limb radicular pain of 6 months’ duration. Imaging demonstrated a destructive lesion involving the third lumbar vertebral body with paravertebral soft-tissue extension. A diagnosis of Enneking stage III GCT was made after biopsy. The patient received pre-operative denosumab followed by gross total resection of the affected vertebra with posterior stabilization and anterior column reconstruction. Postoperatively, denosumab therapy was continued for 6 months, and the patient was simultaneously commenced on oral bisphosphonate therapy (weekly alendronate followed by monthly ibandronate). The patient had complete resolution of symptoms. Serial imaging demonstrated progressive osseous consolidation and stable instrumentation with no evidence of residual or recurrent disease. At 4½ years of follow-up, the patient remained radiologically disease free without treatment-related adverse events. A 27-year-old male presented with severe low back pain and pain radiating to both lower limbs for 6 months. Radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a lytic lesion involving the entire L3 vertebral body, causing its partial collapse with left paravertebral soft-tissue component (Fig. 1). Computed tomography (CT) guided biopsy showed Giant cell rich lesion. A diagnosis of Enneking stage III GCT of the L3 vertebral body was made involving zones 3–10 and layers A–D (Weinstein-Boriani-Biagini Classification [5]). Due to the presence of paravertebral soft-tissue component, it was deemed that surgery was more likely to be intralesional rather than the preferred en bloc spondylectomy. Patient was therefore started on neoadjuvant Denosumab injection - 120 mg s/c on day 1, followed by 60 mg s/c on day 8 and day 15. Denosumab 60 mg s/c every 14 days was then continued for a period of 6 months. After 6 months, CT showed improvement in the cortical margin with a mild increase in sclerosis (Fig. 2), and this response could be classified as level 2a [3]. The patient was planned for pre-operative embolization followed by combined posterior proceed anterior surgery after obtaining informed consent. Patient was placed prone initially, and L1 to L5 pedicle screw stabilization was done. Then L3 posterior neural arch was excised completely, taking care to preserve the L2 and L3 nerve roots. Next, the patient was positioned lateral and left retroperitoneal exposure of L3 vertebra was done. Due to the absence of continuous cortical integrity, gross total (piecemeal) spondylectomy of the L3 vertebral body was done. Expandable titanium cage and iliac crest autograft were used for anterior column reconstruction. Neoadjuvant Denosumab was continued for 6 months after surgery. The patient was also started simultaneously on oral Alendronate 70 mg once weekly, which was continued for a period of 2 years. After 2 years, he was given a further course of oral ibandronate 150 mg once a month for a period of 18 months. The patient had a good post-operative course with complete resolution of symptoms. Serial imaging demonstrated progressive osseous consolidation and stable instrumentation with no evidence of residual or recurrent disease. At 4.5 years post-surgery, the patient remained radiologically disease-free and did not report any treatment-related adverse events (Fig. 3). 27 year old male with (A and B) L3 vertebral body lesion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (C and D) and computed tomography (CT) scan (E) revealed left paravertebral soft-tissue component. A diagnosis of Enneking stage III Giant cell tumor of the L3 vertebral body involving zones 3–10 and layers A–D (Weinstein-Boriani-Biagini Classification [5]) was made following CT-guided biopsy. Sagittal [A], coronal [B], axial [C], and 3D reconstruction [D] computed tomography scan images after 6 months of Denosumab showed improvement in cortical margin with mild increase in sclerosis. Lateral [A] and Anteroposterior (AP) [B] radiographs following L1 to L5 pedicle screw stabilization, proceed L3 gross total spondylectomy and anterior column reconstruction. Lateral [C] and AP [D] radiographs 4.5 years after surgery showing osseous consolidation and stable instrumentation with no evidence of recurrent disease.