A 51-year-old female presented with a 10-year history of low back pain (LBP) that gradually worsened during the 8 months before admission and was accompanied by numbness and weakness in the right foot. The patient reported no known precipitating traumatic event, and physical examination indicated normal muscle strength and muscle tone in both lower extremities. No significant sensory abnormalities or motor impairments were found in the extremities except for numbness in the right heel. Anal and urination reflexes as well as knee and Achilles tendon reflexes were intact. The cases we studied have received the consent of the patients and signed the informed consent form. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Taizhou People's Hospital affiliated to Nanjing Medical University (Approval No: KY202411901; Date: March 5, 2024). The patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which found wedging of the L1 vertebra suggestive of an intramedullary mass (Figure 1A). The mass has an annular lesion with clear boundaries in T2-weighted MRI (Figure 1B). It revealed a 9 mm × 15 mm annular enhancing lesion in the spinal canal with clear boundaries centered at the L1 level (Figure 1C). Enhanced T1-MRI indicated that the location of the mass in the intramedullary in the axial plane (Figure 1D). In addition, MRI suggested degenerative changes in the lumbar spine with lumbar disc herniation at L5–S1. Cranial MRI and other imaging examinations showed no additional abnormalities. In addition, serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen 125 (CA125), carbohydrate antigen 153 (CA153), and carbohydrate antigen 199 (CA199) were within normal ranges, and there were no signs of squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA). We suspected that space-occupying lesions in the spinal canal were the main cause of LBP, and performed timely decompressive laminectomy at T12–L2, tumor removal at L1, and nail–rod fixation. Despite successful surgical excision, pain and numbness remained in the right lower limb. Lumbar MRI at a 6-month follow-up revealed that the nail–rod system was well fixed in the operative area (Figure 2A). In addition, MRI also confirmed the resection of the dominant mass with little residual tumor tissue in unenhanced sagittal T2-MRI (Figure 2B). Postoperative histopathological examination revealed a total lesion volume of 1.5 × 1.5 × 0.4 cm and included white and gray-red interphase tissues visible to the naked eye. The tissue mass was infused with an oily substance, and a few hairs were found on the surface. Microscopic examination of hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained sections revealed that the tissue was composed of squamous epithelium, multinucleated giant cells, histiocytic cells, and keratin. As shown in Figure 3A, it found squamous epithelium, histiocytic cells, and keratin. In addition, multinucleated giant cells and keratin were detected under fluorescence microscopy in Figure 3B. This combination of gross and histological features is consistent with mature cystic teratoma (Figure 3).