A 56-year-old male patient with a history of L4-S1 discectomy followed by instrumented fusion at an external institution two years prior presented with a four-month history of recurrent low back pain and left lower extremity radiculopathy. Over the past 20 days, the symptoms had progressed significantly, manifesting as notable neurogenic intermittent claudication. Physical examination revealed grade 4 strength in the left rectus femoris muscle with diminished deep tendon reflexes in both the right patellar and Achilles tendons. The patient had a history of gout for over 20 years, with clinical manifestations including diffuse swelling (Figure 1) and pain in the acute-phase in multiple joints of the extremities. Previously, the patient received an irregular/intermittent treatment regimen at another hospital, which included: prednisone (0.5 mg/kg/day, orally), celecoxib (0.2 g, twice daily, orally), colchicine (an initial dose of 1 mg, orally, followed by 0.5 mg after 1 h, and then 0.5 mg every 2–3 h until symptom relief), and febuxostat (40 mg, once daily, orally). The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores for back pain were recorded as 7, 14 and 27 (60%), respectively. Serum analysis revealed uric acid (UA) and creatinine levels of 601 μmol/L and 120 μmol/L, respectively. Hematological parameters showed a white blood cell (WBC) count of 6.64 × 109/L, with an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 10 mm/h and C-reactive protein (CRP) level of 9.4 mg/L (Table 1). Radiological examination demonstrated hypodense signal intensity at the posterior margin of the L3 vertebral body on T2-weighted MRI sequences, with corresponding hyperdense signal intensity on CT imaging, resulting in dural sac compression and consequent spinal stenosis (Figure 2). Bone mineral density assessment yielded a T-score of −2.1, consistent with osteoporosis. Multiple tophi were identified throughout the body: (a) left hand; (b) left knee; (c,d) both feet. Presents the results of laboratory tests at different time nodes, mainly focusing on uric acid, creatinine, white blood cells (WBC), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and C-reactive protein (CRP). Lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and x-ray examinations revealed L4-S1 lumbar fusion with screw rod internal fixation. Concurrently, imaging indicated that the lesion at the posterior edge of the L3 vertebral body exerted compression on the dural sac, resulting in secondary spinal stenosis. The patient underwent lesion excision at the posterior margin of the L3 vertebral body, spinal decompression, and pedicle screw fixation under general anesthesia. A revision operation was performed to extend fusion and internal fixation from L4-S1 to L2-S1 (Figure 3a). Due to concomitant osteoporosis-likely attributable to suboptimal oral hormone therapy during prior acute gout attacks-vertebral reinforcement with cement was performed. Intraoperative examination revealed that the L3 lesion consisted of herniated nucleus pulposus tissue intermingled with a substantial calcified, chalky-white mass (Figure 3b), which was completely excised. Histopathological analysis of the chalk-like specimens via hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining confirmed extensive MUC deposits (Figure 3c). Postoperatively, the patient received systematic gout management and rehabilitation. Given the patient's history of disorganized and suboptimal gout treatment, along with elevated serum uric acid and creatinine levels (non-acute phase), we initiated a combined urate-lowering therapy with febuxostat (40 mg once daily) and benzbromarone (50 mg once daily). By postoperative day 7, the serum uric acid level had decreased to 448 μmol/L, and creatinine levels to 94 μmol/L (Table 1). (a) surgical excision of chalk-like lesions. (b) Intraoperative images captured post-lesion removal and decompression. (c) Pathological staining revealed that the degenerated nucleus pulposus tissue was intermixed with a substantial quantity of monosodium urate crystal (MUC) deposits. The patient was satisfied with the treatment process, mainly because the procedure resolved the uncomfortable symptoms that patient had suffered. At 2 weeks post-surgery, the VAS, JOA, and ODI scores were recorded as 3, 25, and 10 (20%), respectively. Follow-up lumbar x-ray and CT examinations revealed no evidence of spinal tophus recurrence or screw loosening (Figure 4). Postoperative CT and anteroposterior and lateral x-ray images.