A 33-year-old parturient (height: 158.3 cm; weight: 68.7 kg) was admitted at 37 weeks of gestation. She had a history of spina bifida, tethered cord syndrome, and self-catheterization of the neurogenic bladder. She also had a history of laparoscopic sacrocolpopexy for uterine prolapse. A cesarean section was planned, and a conference was held between the obstetrician and anesthesiologist. The obstetrician explained that due to prior sacrocolpopexy, delivery might take longer than a normal cesarean section. Therefore, the effects of general anesthesia on the neonate were considered. As the MRI and CT images showed no abnormalities in the epidural space at the lumbar level (Figure 1), the anesthesiologist proposed the use of epidural anesthesia and continuous remifentanil for analgesia. A. MRI shows a tethered spinal cord. The red arrow points to the low conus medullaris at the L5 level. B. Reconstructed CT images reveal spina bifida in the sacral region. In the operating room, standard monitors were attached, and the parturient was placed in the right lateral decubitus position. A Tuohy needle was inserted at L2/3. The epidural space was confirmed using the loss-of-resistance technique with saline. After verifying the absence of blood and cerebrospinal fluid reflux, 15 mL of 2% lidocaine was administered via the Tuohy needle. Subsequently, an epidural catheter was placed. Fifteen minutes later, loss of cold sensation from T5 to L2 was confirmed. An additional 5 mL of 2% lidocaine was administered via the epidural catheter, and the loss of cold sensation at T4 was also confirmed at the start of surgery. Remifentanil was administered at a rate of 0.05 μg/kg/min after the placement of the epidural catheter and increased to 0.07 μg/kg/min at the start of surgery (Figure 2). The sedative side effects of remifentanil were monitored using electroencephalography (Bispectral Index; Medtronic-Covidien, Dublin, Ireland). We decided to administer remifentanil to ensure that the BIS score did not fall below 80. Oxygen was administered at a rate of 5 L/min, and exhaled carbon dioxide was monitored. The parturient did not experience any pain until delivery. The neonate was delivered nine minutes after the start of surgery. The neonatal Apgar score was four at one minute and nine at five minutes. During uterine incision closure, the parturient complained of dull pain. Consequently, remifentanil was increased to 0.1 μg/kg/min. Increasing the remifentanil dose alleviated deep visceral pain but caused mild drowsiness. There was no change in the parturient’s respiratory rate. The maternal-neonate first meeting and kangaroo care occurred without any problems. Remifentanil was tapered and discontinued after complete abdominal fascial closure. For postoperative pain management, 0.2% ropivacaine was administered epidurally at 3 mL/h until the first postoperative day. The postoperative course was uneventful. During the post-anesthesia rounds, the parturient did not recall any significant pain during the surgery. SpO2, saturation of percutaneous oxygen, (%); BIS, bispectral index; HR, heart rate, (beat per minute); NIBP, non-invasive blood pressure, (mmHg); epi, epidural anesthesia; ◎ start and end of surgery