A male patient sustained polytrauma from a train accident with traumatic amputation of the right forearm. Diagnostic work-up revealed severe thoracic injuries and an open translocation injury type C L1/L2. The morphology was suggestive of complete paraplegia resulting in wheelchair-dependency. After initial treatment according to ATLS™ guidelines, replantation of the upper extremity was achieved within 5 h. A 30-degree elbow arthrodesis was established for future wheelchair mobility. Spinal cord injuries were addressed using dorsal spinal stabilization and decompression, followed by ventral spondylodesis. The patient achieved remarkable good functional recovery, demonstrating walking mobility and performing active wrist flexion and extension of the replanted extremity. Under the influence of alcohol, a 20-year-old male patient suffered polytrauma injuries as he fell from a platform of a railway and was hit by a moving train leaving the station. Paramedics were the first responders at the scene and provided initial treatment with fluid resuscitation, tourniquet and analgesia. In the manner of a “load and go” concept the patient was quickly taken to the ER of our level one trauma center where he presented in stable cardio-pulmonary condition with a GCS of 8 and was rapidly intubated. According to our established polytrauma protocol, a full-body spiral CT scan followed, which revealed bilateral pneumothoraces, lung contusions, a diaphragmatic rupture, an open translocation spinal injury type C at the level of L1/L2, a medial clavicle fracture as well as amputation of the right forearm (Fig. 1 a-d). Fortunately, the cerebral CT imaging was unremarkable, and no intracerebral hemorrhage or skull fracture was detected.Fig. 1Trauma sequela: a) Diaphragmatic rupture visible in laparotomy, b–c) CT-scan of spinal fracture, d) amputate at occurrence in trauma bay, e) X-ray of peri-implant clavicle fracture.Fig. 1 Trauma sequela: a) Diaphragmatic rupture visible in laparotomy, b–c) CT-scan of spinal fracture, d) amputate at occurrence in trauma bay, e) X-ray of peri-implant clavicle fracture. The trauma care team at this point consisted of trauma surgeons, plastic-reconstructive surgeons, vascular surgeons as well as general surgeons and anesthesiologists. The patient continued to show a stable cardio-pulmonary condition und moderate pharmacological support, which allowed for an extensive surgical treatment plan to be formulated while adhering to ATLS™ principles, which was executed as follows: As the most acute injury, initially the chest trauma was addressed. Bilateral chest drains were inserted in typical fashion and a median laparotomy was performed to address the diaphragmatic rupture. Intraoperatively a left diaphragmatic rupture of 8 cm was observed and treated by direct suturing with Ethibond® (J&J Medical, Norderstedt, Germany). No additional intra-abdominal injuries were detected. Rupture or lacerations of the liver or spleen were specifically ruled out. Weighing all factors a consensus was reached to attempt replantation of the forearm. This was motivated specifically by a straight separation at the level of the distal humerus with preserved muscles of the forearm and overall moderate contusion and contamination of the soft tissue. In addition, the young patient age and moderately stable condition was taken into consideration and the potential dependency on a wheelchair in the future. Given the level of the injury and the overall status of the patient an arthrodesis at the elbow joint was planned in 30° flexion to allow for bed transfers and wheelchair mobility. The procedure started approximately 4 h after the injury had taken place and in close coordination with the general and trauma surgeons to minimize surgical delays. Before, the amputated arm was prepared with debridement of bone and clear identification of the median, ulnar and radial nerve as well as the brachial artery, cephalic and basilic veins. All essential structures showed a sufficient stump length to be considered for reconstruction, so that the replantation was attempted. After identifying the brachial artery and corresponding veins at the level of the upper arm there was no outflow from the artery due to traumatic injury of the vessel intima. In cooperation with vascular surgery a shunt was placed and reperfusion of the forearm was promptly achieved. However, due to the instability of the construct a parallel arthrodesis of the elbow was not possible and after 75 min of reperfusion the shunt had to be removed again with a second ischemia interval. Arthrodesis was then performed between the forearm and upper arm, after bony resection, using a 3.5 mm 10-hole LCP plate fixation (Fig. 2a) at an angle of approx. 30°. Consecutively, anastomosis of the brachial artery was performed under the surgical microscope with 8.0 monofilament suture and four coupler-anastomoses (2 × 3,5 mm and 2 × 2,5 mm) between two brachial veins and two branches of the cephalic/basilic veins were carried out. Lastly the median nerve, ulnar nerve and radial nerve were coapted with epineural 8.0 monofilament sutures and additionally braced by fibrin glue, after shortening the end on the amputated parts close to the muscle to minimize length of reinnervation.Fig. 2Operative treatment: a) X-ray of elbow-arthrodesis, b) clinical photography after replantation and mesh-grafting, c) fluoroscopy of dorsal instrumentation, d) X-ray of plate osteosynthesis of peri-implant clavicle fracture.Fig. 2 Operative treatment: a) X-ray of elbow-arthrodesis, b) clinical photography after replantation and mesh-grafting, c) fluoroscopy of dorsal instrumentation, d) X-ray of plate osteosynthesis of peri-implant clavicle fracture. To address the anticipated ischemia reperfusion injury of the right forearm, an extended carpal tunnel release and compartment release of the ventral forearm for both, the superficial and deep flexor interval, was performed. The joint origin of superficial and deep flexor muscles was reinserted at the level of the distal humerus with sutures to the periosteum. The biceps muscle and brachialis muscle were also sutured to the periosteum of the radius and the triceps muscle was sutured to the arthrodesis plate posteriorly. Finally, the defect was covered with a full-thickness skin graft of the right forearm decollement and temporary coverage with EpiGARD® (Biovision, Ilmenau, Germany). Specific postoperative medication included Liquemin 10,000 IE / 24 h i.v. starting 6 h after the surgery, oral medication using Aspirin 1 × 100 mg, and i.v. antibiotic treatment using combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid 3 × 2.2 g/ per day. Due to partial necrosis of the full-thickness skin graft a revision surgery had to be undertaken on postoperative day 8. The skin graft was partially debrided including superficial parts of necrotic muscle and the defect was covered with a random pattern lateral arm flap. The donor site was covered with split thickness skin grafting from the upper thigh. A final split-thickness skin graft was required on postoperative day 21 due to insufficient healing result at the flap donor site (Fig. 2b). Throughout the surgery the patient continued to destabilize with hypotonic blood pressure, loss of blood volume as well as worsening coagulopathy. The decision was therefore made to stop surgical treatment after replantation of the arm to stabilize the patient. Following the extended procedure the patient remained intubated and ventilated and was taken to the ICU. One day after trauma we saw a sufficient recovery to then treat the spinal fractures. Initially, dorsal spondylodesis of T10 to L3 and laminectomy of L1-L2 was performed (Fig. 2c). One month following dorsal instrumentation ventral spondylodesis and fusion of the vertebral bodies L1 and L2 using the Medtronic legacy anterior 6.5x45mm system (Medtronic, Dublin, Ireland) was carried out. The peri-implant clavicle fracture on the right side was treated 2.5 weeks after the initial trauma. The clavicle plate, which had been inserted for treatment of a right clavicle fracture one year prior to the current polytrauma and amputation injury, was removed and osteosynthesis was performed using an anatomic 4-hole superior-anterior 2.7/3.5 mm LCP (Fig. 2d). After completion of all surgical treatment, the patient was finally discharged to a rehabilitation facility 6 weeks after trauma. On discharge, the neurological status of the lower extremities demonstrated an ASIA A score. The initial post-traumatic and preoperative status could not be determined, as the patient was intubated immediately after arrival in the ER and no active movements of patient extremities was observed. While it was therefore assumed that complete paraplegia was already existent posttraumatic, this cannot be guaranteed with absolute certainty. Surprisingly, the patient's neurological status improved under intensive physiotherapeutic and rehabilitative care. Just 9 months post injury, the ASIA score improved to C, with active movements in the hip flexors and knee extensors against gravity (M2/5). This correlates with level L2-L3. Two and a half years postoperatively, the value ameliorated to ASIA D, and muscle strength demonstrated values ranging from M3–5/5 for specific muscles of the L2, L3 and S1 segments. The radiological course of the spinal fractures was also positive, with good consolidation of the spinal fractures without secondary fracture collapse at the 10 month and 5-year posttraumatic radiologic follow up. In the area of the elbow arthrodesis, the soft tissue healing progressed without complication during the rehabilitation process. However, bony consolidation was delayed, with the patient experiencing pain up to two and a half years postoperatively and still incomplete osseous consolidation at that time. In our opinion a surgical revision was not recommended given the risks for sever complications. Finally, at the 5-year follow up, complete osseous consolidation was observed (Fig. 3a-b) and symptoms of pain and discomfort had subsided.Fig. 3Outcome after 5 years: a) CT-scan of healed elbow-arthrodesis, b) X-ray of healed spinal fracture, c) clinical photography of dorsal and plantarflexion in right wrist.Fig. 3 Outcome after 5 years: a) CT-scan of healed elbow-arthrodesis, b) X-ray of healed spinal fracture, c) clinical photography of dorsal and plantarflexion in right wrist. Lastly the function of the right arm had progressed far beyond our expectation and the patient demonstrated full closure of the fist and full finger extension with a strength of M5/5 as well as flexion and extension in the wrist with M5/5 (Fig. 3c, Video 1). Grip strength on the right showed 5 kg versus 23 kg on the left. The sensory recovery showed a two-point-discrimination of 8 mm from thumb to ring finger and 15 mm for the little finger. Due to the elbow arthrodesis, function of pronation and supination was expectedly significantly impaired. However, this could be compensated by shoulder and upper body movements to an adjusted 70° pronation/supination. In summery 5 years after the operation, the patient had resumed many activities in daily life and was coping well with some challenging aspects of living at home. Neurological improvements continued and the patient was able to walk independently despite persistent foot drop paresis, which was treated using a Heidelberg splint. Intermittently, the patient utilized a wheelchair for longer walking distances. He also mastered successful reintegration into his previous profession. The patient is satisfied with the course of his recovery and describes good integration in his social life, even though minor disabilities exist, for which he developed several coping strategies.