A 76-year-old male patient underwent bilateral L5 TFESI and developed severe back pain with bilateral leg weakness two weeks later. One week after symptom onset, he began visiting an outside emergency department daily, where he received empirical intravenous antibiotics. It was initiated in the absence of an identified pathogen. Based on the empirical treatment principles outlined in the 2015 IDSA Clinical Practice Guidelines for Native Vertebral Osteomyelitis [6], initial therapy was started with agents active against common pyogenic pathogens. In this context, cefditoren was administered for two weeks, followed by ciprofloxacin with clindamycin for an additional two weeks, and subsequently teicoplanin with ceftriaxone for another two weeks. However, these sequential modifications, made in response to the lack of clinical improvement and progressive worsening of symptoms, failed to halt his deterioration. He subsequently presented to our outpatient pain clinic 11 weeks after the initial TFESI. His past medical history was notable for non-small cell lung cancer, atrial fibrillation managed with rivaroxaban, and severe mitral regurgitation. He was admitted immediately for further evaluation and management. At that time, he was non-ambulatory with mild bilateral lower limb edema. Enhanced lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated spondylodiscitis and osteomyelitis at L1-L2 with bilateral psoas extension (Figure 1), and his C-reactive protein (CRP) level was elevated at 38.68 mg/L. The L1–2 vertebral bodies show increased signal intensity, suggestive of osteomyelitis and discitis. Neurological examination revealed motor strength of grade 3/5 in both lower limbs. Blood cultures were drawn following MRI to evaluate for possible bacteremia or systemic infection, and whole-body cultures, including sputum, urine, and stool, were done but came out negative. To facilitate pathogen identification, antibiotics were discontinued for three days, and an L2 vertebral body bone biopsy was performed one week after admission. Comprehensive tests were conducted, including tissue Gram stain and culture, tissue AFB stain and culture, Mycobacterium tuberculosis polymerase chain reaction (MTB PCR), periodic acid-Schiff stain (PAS stain), and fungal culture using standard bacterial enrichment broth media; no organism was isolated. Subsequently, his neurological status worsened, accompanied by an increase in CRP to 151.34 mg/L with an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 77 mm/hour and white blood cell (WBC) count of 9.7 × 10³/µL and a decline in motor strength to grade 2/5. Five days after the biopsy, unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) and discectomy were performed at L1-2 via a left-sided approach. Intraoperatively, a grayish, inflamed extruded disc was observed, causing compression of the thecal sac and the left L2 nerve root at the T12-L1/L1-2 level. A laminectomy at the left T12 and L1 was carried out for adequate decompression. Following neural decompression, posterior fixation was performed with four pedicle screws inserted bilaterally at L1-2. Intraoperative cultures of disc material grew C. albicans (Figure 2). All antibiotics were discontinued, and intravenous fluconazole therapy was initiated. The patient demonstrated rapid improvement following antifungal treatment, with ESR decreasing to 69 mm/hour, CRP to 44.13 mg/L, and WBC count to 8.57 × 10³/µL after three days. Beginning the day after surgery, his lower limb motor strength improved from grade 2 to grade 4, and he was discharged to a rehabilitation facility. At the three-month follow-up, he maintained grade 5 strength and was able to walk independently, with no recurrence of infection on MRI. Creamy, smooth yeast-like colonies are visible, characteristic of fungal growth.