The patient was an 82-year-old man with a history of myocardial infarction and chronic kidney disease. After undergoing dialysis, he became unsteady at home and fell forward, injuring his face. He presented with tetraparesis and was rushed to our hospital. On physical examination, he was alert with stable vital signs. There were periorbital ecchymosis and edema, and he had severe pain, numbness, and allodynia predominantly in the upper extremities. When assessing motor strength using the International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI), there was an 11-point difference in manual muscle testing (MMT) between the upper (15 points) and lower extremities (26 points), indicating ATCCS of American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) Impairment Scale (AIS) C. Cervical spine CT showed no bone injury, and MRI revealed spinal canal stenosis and mild intramedullary signal change at the C3/4 level (Figure 1). Head CT showed mild traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage, anterior skull base fracture, and pneumocephalus (Figure 2). No obvious CSF leak was detected at admission. We initially decided to treat both the head injury and the cervical spine condition conservatively. The patient was kept at bed rest with the head in a horizontal position. External immobilization with a cervical collar was applied, and analgesics were started. However, on the day after admission, when the patient’s muscle strength was re-evaluated with ISNCSCI, the MMT score of the upper extremities had deteriorated to 10 points and the lower to 15 points. MRI showed no worsening of intramedullary edema, but high signal intensity was observed in the epidural area on both T1-weighted and T2-weighted images (Figure 3). Arrows show high signal intensity in the epidural area on both T1-weighted and T2-weighted images. Initially, an epidural hematoma was suspected. Given neurologic deterioration despite conservative management, we decided to perform emergency laminoplasty. When the patient was placed in the prone position, continuous and profuse CSF rhinorrhea was observed. To control CSF leakage, a lumbar CSF drain was inserted, but the drain output remained negligible, and surgery was performed with the head elevated. No epidural hematoma was identified intraoperatively, and the abnormal MRI signal observed preoperatively was presumed to represent dilation of the epidural venous plexus due to the CSF rhinorrhea. The surgery was completed without complication (Figure 4). Fortunately, following surgical treatment, evaluation with ISNCSCI on the next day showed that the MMT score had improved to 20 points in the upper extremities and 30 points in the lower extremities. Because the spinal drainage produced minimal output throughout and was considered likely to worsen intracranial hypotension, it was removed on the day after surgery. For the TCFR, conservative treatment with head elevation was performed. Head CT on day 7 revealed findings of subdural hygroma, which subsequently resolved spontaneously on day 14 (Figure 5). Dynamic radiographs taken one month after surgery showed no instability of the cervical spine (Figure 6). However, the patient developed a urinary tract infection and died two months after surgery.