A 68-year-old man presented with intermittent claudication and bilateral posterior thigh numbness. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) revealed mild spondylolisthesis and severe canal stenosis at the L4/5 level (Figure 1a). Dynamic radiography showed no clear instability at this level. The patient was diagnosed with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), and FEL was performed. Preoperative imaging and intraoperative findings of case 1. a) MRI and CT showing severe canal stenosis with mild spondylolisthesis at the L4/5 level. b-d) intraoperative views (right: cranial, left: caudal). b) DMVL anchoring the dura mater to the LF fragment. c) DMVL disconnection using bipolar cautery. d) Post-LF removal, with no dural laceration. CT: computed tomography; DMVL: dorsal meningovertebral ligament; LF: ligamentum flavum; MRI: magnetic resonance imaging The FEL procedure was performed as previously described.24) Under general anesthesia, the patient was positioned prone. A 12 mm skin incision was made 10 mm lateral to the midline of the target vertebral level under fluoroscopic guidance. Muscles attached to the adjacent vertebral laminae were carefully detached using a dilator, similar to microendoscopic surgical technique.25) An angled working sheath and a 6.4 mm working channel endoscope were then inserted. The vertebral laminae and articular processes were removed using a 4.0 mm diameter high-speed drill (NSK Nakanishi Japan, Tokyo, Japan) to expose the LF. The LF boundary was dissected, and its central part was carefully separated using a small curette and Kerrison rongeur. After confirming the absence of dural adhesion using a dissector or blunt hook, the separated LF fragments were removed. Following these procedures, the endoscope and working sheath were carefully removed, and a drain was placed. Motor-evoked potential monitoring was performed throughout the procedure. In this case, during LF fragment removal, a ligament anchoring the dura mater to the separated LF fragment was identified and presumed to be a DMVL (Figure 1b). When attempting to remove the LF fragment, traction on the dura mater via the DMVL was observed, indicating a risk of dural laceration. To prevent this, we disconnected the DMVL using bipolar cautery (Figure 1c). Subsequently, the LF fragment was safely removed without any abnormal movement of the dura mater, and no dural laceration occurred (Figure 1d). These surgical procedures are presented in Video 1. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the symptoms improved. A 57-year-old man presented to our hospital with pain in the lateral aspect of the right thigh. MRI and CT showed severe canal stenosis at the L4/5 level (Figure 2a). The patient was diagnosed with LSS, and FEL was performed. Preoperative imaging and intraoperative findings of case 2. a) Preoperative imaging revealing severe canal stenosis at the L4/5 level. b-d) Intraoperative views (right: cranial, left: caudal). b) DMVL observed under the LF, connecting it to the dura mater. c) DMVL dissection using Kerrison rongeur. d) Safe LF removal without dural laceration. DMVL: dorsal meningovertebral ligament; LF: ligamentum flavum The FEL procedure was conducted as described in Case 1. Following the dissection of the LF from the lamina, the central portion of the LF was separated. Upon confirming the absence of adhesion between the dura mater and the LF, we attempted to remove the separated LF fragment. Upon elevating the LF fragment with a Kerrison rongeur, we observed its connection to the dura mater via a ligamentous structure presumed to be a DMVL (Figure 2b). Similar to Case 1, traction on the dura mater occurred via the DMVL when the LF fragment was lifted. Careful dissection of the DMVL was performed using the Kerrison rongeur (Figure 2c), allowing for safe removal of the LF without dural laceration (Figure 2d). These surgical maneuvers are demonstrated in Video 2. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful, with notable improvement in symptoms.