Case 1 A 14-year-old right-handed male volleyball player, serving as a front-row offensive player, developed subacute lower back pain after increased spike training. The pain persisted for three weeks despite physiotherapy, prompting referral for suspected lumbar spondylolysis. Past Medical History The patient had no significant past medical history. Physical Examination Localized tenderness between the L4 and L5 spinous processes (Figure 1), on lumbar extension, and restricted right trunk rotation were observed. Flexion pain, Kemp’s sign, femoral nerve stretch test, and straight leg raise (SLR) test results were negative. However, SLRs were limited to 60° bilaterally due to hamstring tightness, with a heel-to-buttock distance measuring approximately 6 cm on both sides. The patient indicates localized tenderness between the L4 and L5 spinous processes. Imaging Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed no signs of spondylolysis or disc bulging; however, high signal intensity was observed caudal to the L4 spinous process on short-tau inversion recovery (STIR) sequences (Figure 2). Computed tomography (CT) showed no fracture (Figure 3). Skeletal maturity corresponded to Risser stage 3. STIR sequence MRI reveals high signal intensity at the caudal aspect of the L4 spinous process: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; STIR, short-tau inversion recovery CT shows no evidence of fracture at the corresponding site: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. CT, computed tomography Diagnosis The patient was diagnosed with a contusion of the L4 spinous process. Treatment and Outcome Initially, the patient continued athletic activities; however, symptoms persisted for approximately three to four weeks. Therefore, he was referred to our department. Although the patient temporarily continued competing due to an upcoming event, substantial rest from sports began six weeks after symptom onset. Treatment included a soft lumbar orthosis with four aluminum stays (Maxbelt S3, SIGMAX, Tokyo, Japan) and physiotherapy. Physiotherapy focused on reducing extension stress on the lumbar spine by increasing thoracic, scapulothoracic, and rib cage mobility and improving flexibility of the iliopsoas and quadriceps. Additionally, anterior core strengthening exercises targeting the rectus abdominis and oblique muscles were incorporated to enhance anti-extension control and reduce the mechanical loading on the spinous processes. Symptoms persisted up to eight weeks, and gradual improvement was observed thereafter. At 14 weeks after symptom onset, both clinical symptoms and MRI findings had completely resolved (Figure 4). The patient successfully returned to competitive sports without recurrence. STIR MRI shows complete resolution of high signal intensity at the L4 spinous process: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; STIR, short-tau inversion recovery Case 2 An 11-year-old right-handed male basketball player developed acute lower back pain after lifting a heavy object while in a hyperextended posture. Symptoms persisted even after two weeks of rest. Past Medical History The patient had no significant past medical history. Physical Examination Localized tenderness between the L4 and L5 spinous processes and pain on lumbar extension were observed. Flexion pain, Kemp’s sign, femoral nerve stretch test, and SLR test results were negative. SLRs were limited to 80° bilaterally, and the heel-to-buttock distance was almost zero on both sides, indicating no tightness of the bilateral hamstrings and quadriceps femoris muscles. Imaging High signal intensity was observed at the cranial aspect of the L4 spinous process on STIR sequence MRI (Figure 5), and CT revealed a fracture line at the same site (Figure 6). Skeletal maturity was assessed as Risser stage 0. STIR sequence MRI reveals high signal intensity at the cranial aspect of the L4 spinous process: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; STIR, short-tau inversion recovery CT shows a fracture line at the same location: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. CT, computed tomography Diagnosis The patient was diagnosed with a fracture of the L4 spinous process. Treatment and Outcome Even after symptom onset, the patient continued athletic activities for approximately two to three weeks before referral. Conservative treatment was initiated early using a soft lumbar orthosis with four aluminum stays (Maxbelt S3, SIGMAX) to restrict extension and physiotherapy, while allowing modified sports participation with restricted lumbar extension. Symptoms gradually improved, and both clinical and imaging abnormalities resolved at 14 weeks after symptom onset (Figures 7-8). The patient returned to full sports participation without recurrence. STIR sequence MRI shows resolution of high signal intensity at the L4 spinous process: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; STIR, short-tau inversion recovery CT confirms bony union at the fracture site: (A) sagittal view, (B) axial view, and (C) coronal view. CT, computed tomography