During routine dissection and subsequent bone retrieval for osteology collection at the Department of Anatomy, Goa Medical College, Bambolim, Goa (GMCIEC/2024/233), we encountered a C1-C3 cervical vertebral specimen demonstrating the following features: ossified anterior longitudinal ligament (ALL) along the anterior surface of the vertebral bodies, ossified alar ligament forming prominent osteophytes, and continuous ossification, creating bony bridges across adjacent vertebrae. This finding was incidental, and no clinical history was available as the specimen belonged to a cadaver prepared for academic purposes. Imaging findings In the atlas (C1) (Figure 1), osteophytes of the ALL (green arrow) and alar ligament (red arrow) are demonstrated in anterior and posterior views. In the upper cervical vertebrae (C1-C3) (Figure 2), similar changes are noted with clearer visualization of C1 osteophytes. The axis (C2) (Figure 3) shows a prominent osteophyte of the ALL (green arrow), while the C3 vertebra (Figure 4) also demonstrates an ALL osteophyte (green arrow). (a) shows the anterior view; osteophyte of the anterior longitudinal ligament in the anterior arch is identified (green arrow) along with osteophyte of the alar ligament (red arrow). (b) demonstrates the posterior view of osteophyte of the alar ligament (red arrow). (c) shows the superior view of the C1. (d) shows the inferior view. (a) shows the anterior view of the first three cervical vertebrae (C1-C3). The atlas (C1) with its osteophyte of the anterior longitudinal ligament (green arrow) and osteophyte of the alar ligament (red arrow). (b) presents the posterior view of the cervical vertebrae (C1-C3). (a) shows the anterior view of the axis (C2 vertebra), where the prominent osteophyte of the anterior longitudinal ligament (green arrow). (b) presents the posterior view of the axis. (a) shows the anterior view of the C3 vertebra, where the prominent osteophyte of the anterior longitudinal ligament (green arrow). (b) presents the posterior view of the axis.