A 35-year-old male developed pain on the right side of the lower back 3 years prior, without any obvious cause. The pain worsened while walking, and the symptoms were slightly relieved when lying flat. There were no abnormalities in defecation and urination, intermittent claudication, lower limb pain, or other discomfort. After treatment with oral analgesics (the specific details are unknown), the symptoms were slightly alleviated. Lumbar muscle strain was suspected, and no further medical treatment was performed. Recently, the pain aggravated, accompanied by pain and numbness in the right thigh root, which could not be relieved after rest. The patient was admitted to the hospital on February 27, 2024. After admission, all laboratory tests (routine blood examination, liver and kidney function, coagulation, and C-reactive protein level) showed no abnormalities. The patient has been followed-up in our hospital since July 2021, when the right psoas muscle mass (approximately 3/4 of the waist) was found in our outpatient department. The changes in the mass detected on CT are shown in Table 1. From the table, it can be seen that the tumor size doubled over a period of more than 2 years. The lumbar CT scan on July 16, 2021 showed a slightly hypodense shadow with the size of approximately 1.5 cm × 1.4 cm × 2.0 cm in the right psoas major muscle, with a CT value of about 33 HU and a relatively clear boundary. The enhanced CT scan on February 20, 2024, showed a mixed density shadow with a size of approximately 30 mm × 32 mm × 40 mm in the right psoas major muscle, mainly slightly hypodense, with a low-density area in the upper part and a clear boundary. The average CT value was approximately 24 HU, and there was delayed enhancement during the enhanced scan (Fig. 1). CT examination record at different time. CT = computed tomography. CT image. (A) in July 2021, the mass of psoas was well-defined and rounded; (B,C) in February 2024, the mass of psoas was enlarged and well-defined with no obvious blood supply. CT = computed tomography. During this period, there were 3 MR examinations with values shown in Table 2. From February 2022 to January 2024, the maximum diameter of the tumor doubled in approximately 2 years (Fig. 2). MRI examination data. MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. The MRI images. Panel (A) shows a slightly longer T2 signal with a diameter of about 1.7 cm in the right psoas muscle; panel (B) shows a slightly longer T2 signal with a maximum diameter of about 1.9 cm in the right psoas muscle; panel (C) shows a signal of about 30 mm × 32 mm × 40 mm T1/T2 slightly longer with clear border. Based on the patient’s symptoms and the results of lumbar CT and MRI examinations, right lumbar muscle lateral anterior tumor resection surgery was performed under general anesthesia on March 1, 2024. The patient was placed in a left-lying position, and the surgical approach was performed along the muscle fibers to bluntly separate the iliopsoas muscle, external oblique muscle, internal oblique muscle, and transverse abdominal muscle, exposing the psoas muscle. Intraoperatively, a 3 cm × 5 cm × 3 cm well-circumscribed mass was identified within the psoas muscle, separated from the surrounding muscle fibers by blunt dissection. The tumor was resected en bloc with preservation of the overlying fascia, and intraoperative frozen section pathology confirmed the diagnosis of schwannoma (Fig. 3). The mass was elliptical in shape and gray-yellow in color, with clear boundaries, and a small pedicle connected to the surface of the capsule. After separating the small nerves, the tumor was completely removed and the wound was washed and sutured. During surgery, frozen tissue was sent for testing, which indicated schwannoma. The postoperative immunohistochemical results were the same as those for frozen tissue. Gross (A,B) and longitudinal (C) view of the tumor. MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. The hematoxylin and eosin-stained image of the pathological examination is shown in Figure 4. Histologically, benign schwannomas have capsules, and different regions present with Antoni A and Antoni B regions. Figure 4 shows that the Antoni A region is rich in cells, composed of spindle-shaped cells, with nuclei arranged in a wavy or palisade-like pattern to form Verocay bodies. The Antoni B region is composed of similar cells, but with fewer cells and a mucinous matrix. S100 protein showed strong diffuse positive staining. The images of the pathological examination. (A) Hematoxylin and eosin staining, ×10. Immunohistochemical staining of S0X10 (B) and S100 (C), ×10. On the second day after surgery, the patient’s symptoms of lower back pain, right thigh root pain, and numbness had disappeared. The patient was discharged on the third postoperative day, the surgical wound is shown in Figure 5. The prognosis is good. To date, the patient has not relapsed. Postoperative incision.