A 46-year-old woman with adult idiopathic scoliosis (AdIS) presented with several years of worsening back pain on the left side, along the convexity of her lumbar curve, and right leg radiculopathy radiating into the groin and anterior thigh. She had not improved with extensive physical therapy, epidural steroid injections, chiropractic treatment, or anti-inflammatory and muscle relaxant medications. She was also dissatisfied with her cosmetic appearance due to a left-sided truncal shift and a right-sided asymmetric waist crease. On physical examination, she had 5/5 strength in all major muscle groups except for 4/5 strength in the right hip flexor and tibialis anterior. Sensation was intact in all dermatomes, and no long-tract signs were present. Preoperative imaging demonstrated a 45° lumbar curve with the apex to the left, a 17° lumbosacral fractional curve with the apex to the right, −4 cm coronal imbalance, and preserved sagittal alignment (Figure 1). According to the AdIS classification, this was categorized as a 5/NS/Cor malaligned curve [3]. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed no focal stenosis, cord tethering, or syrinx (Figure 2). The patient was indicated for T10-ilium posterior instrumented fixation with PCOs (Schwab Grade 2) at L2-L4, performed under neuromonitoring. Intraoperative optical-guided navigation was used based on a preoperative CT scan with the 7D (SeaSpine) navigation system. Surgical technique Following intubation and neuromonitoring electrode placement, the patient was positioned prone on a Jackson table. The spine was exposed using subperiosteal dissection from the T10 to the pelvis. Inferior facetectomies were performed from the T11 to L5. The navigation array was then placed on the L4 spinous process, and five registration points were selected on the L5 spinous process and lamina, as well as the S1 lamina (Figure 3). After a 5.4-second FLASH image, 5,045 points were matched to the preoperative CT scan, and accuracy was confirmed (Figure 3). Pedicle screws were placed from L4 to S1, and bilateral S2-alar-iliac (S2AI) screws were inserted. PCOs (Schwab Grade 2) were then performed at the apical levels (L2-L4). This involved removing the spinous process, developing the midline raphe between the ligamentum flavum leaflets, and using 3-mm Kerrison rongeurs to remove the ligamentum flavum and superior articular process bilaterally. Additional FLASH images were obtained to separately register the L2-L3 and T10-L1 levels (Figure 4). After screw placement, the lumbar apex was de-rotated, and pre-contoured rods were placed to achieve correction. The patient recovered well and was discharged home on postoperative day (POD) 4 without neurological deficits. Results The patient recovered well after surgery and was discharged home on POD4. Postoperative scoliosis radiographs show correction of her lumbar curve and coronal malalignment, with preservation of sagittal alignment through appropriate placement of the T10-ilium instrumentation (Figure 5). Axial CT images show accurate screw placement at the osteotomy levels (L2-L4) across the apex of her scoliosis (Figure 6). At her most recent follow-up, the patient was doing well, with resolution of her prior symptoms and no residual pain, and she was no longer taking pain medication.