A 71-year-old female presented with lumbar pain, numbness and weakness of both legs. Her past medical history was only remarkable for type 2 diabetes mellitus. No history of hypertension or coagulation disorders was documented. Pre-operative imaging lumbar spine scan showed significant stenosis at the level of L3-L5 (Figure 1). Laboratory blood tests were all within normal limits. She underwent a posterior lumbar decompression and fusion L3-L5. The anesthetic technique was total intravenous anesthesia. The intra-operative analgesia was paracetamol 1g, metamizole 1g, ketorolac 30mg and morphine 2mg. The procedure was performed in a prone position. The neurosurgeons did not see any signs of intraoperative CSF leak. The surgery was completed and the patient was awoken and extubated. After a few minutes, generalized tonic-clonic seizures occurred. As a result, she was promptly re-intubated and transferred to the Neurocritical Care Unit (NCCU). An urgent brain computed tomography (CT) scan was ordered. It showed a decrease in the amplitude of the supratentorial ventricular system, associated with engorgement of the venous sinuses, interpeduncular hyperdensity and hypodensity in the thalami (evoking a pseudohypoxic pattern) (Figure 2). There is a slight decrease in the amplitude of the supratentorial ventricular system, associated with engorgement of the venous sinuses, interpeduncular hyperdensity, and hypodensity in the thalami (evoking a pseudohypoxic pattern). There is also the appearance of "pseudo-subarachnoid hemorrhage" (arrow). Different aetiologies were considered, including a dural tear with CSF leak or an anaesthetic complication. Seizures were managed with sedation (propofol) and antiepileptics (levetiracetam). An electroencephalogram (EEG), performed without sedation, revealed diffuse slowing of brain electrical activity, consistent with moderate encephalopathy, and no apparent epileptic activity. A wake-up test showed a persistent Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of 3 (E1V1M1) [6], and a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a pseudohypoxic cerebral pattern (Figure 3). Changes consistent with a pseudohypoxic pattern are described in the context of spinal surgical intervention. There was a diffuse thickening and pachymeningeal enhancement (arrows); these findings are compatible with a context of cerebrospinal fluid hypotension. A lumbar MRI was not able to document liquor leak points (Figure 4). The MRI was unable to document liquor leak points. Intracranial pressure (ICP) was sustained at 2-4 mmHg with the head up to 30º. After several observations, on the sixth day of hospitalization, clear fluid drainages were observed through the lumbar surgical wound. With these drainages, ICP dropped to negative values. She initiated meropenem and vancomycin due to suspected central nervous system infection. In a multidisciplinary discussion between neurosurgeons and neurointensivists, it was decided to perform a surgical review of the wound. A surgical exploration was performed in the operating room, with identification of one dural laceration and exteriorization of the rootlets adjacent to the right L5 screw. This dural tear was repaired with a dural substitute and biological glue. On the twelfth day of hospitalization, four days after the second surgery, she was extubated and she presented with a GCS of 14 (E4V4M6) [6]. Her wound healed without signs of infection. A follow-up brain CT scan postoperatively demonstrated no alterations. At NCCU discharge, she was GCS 15 (E4V5M6). Her neurological examination showed improvement of her bilateral leg numbness compared to her pre-operative status, but mild cognitive and motor impairment (global strength 3+) was noted. She underwent physiotherapy and rehabilitation with posterior improvement (global strength 4+).