A healthy primiparous woman presented for induction of labour for a small-for-gestational age foetus and requested epidural analgesia. Her height was 161 cm and body mass index at antenatal booking was 23 kg/m2. She was healthy apart from a history of anxiety treated with desvenlafaxine. Initial epidural placement was attempted by a trainee anaesthetist with the patient in the sitting position using a 16 gauge Tuohy needle with a loss of resistance to saline technique. At the L3–4 level, CSF was identified at a depth of 4 cm. A consultant anaesthetist was called to assist and similarly identified CSF at a depth of 5 cm at the L4–5 level. During this attempt, 2 ml of ropivacaine 0.2% with fentanyl 5 µg/mL was administered to establish analgesia. A third attempt, also at the L3–4 level, resulted in a ‘subtle’ loss of resistance. However, when a 5-ml test dose of ropivacaine 0.2% with fentanyl 5 µg/mL was injected, the inserted catheter behaved like an intrathecal catheter, with the patient experiencing a block extending up to C5, a systolic blood pressure in the 90s, nausea, but no respiratory compromise, and therefore was managed as such. A few hours after a ventouse delivery, the patient developed a headache with verbal numerical rating scale intensity of six to seven out of ten. This was managed initially with oral analgesia; however, the next day the patient developed an acute neurological syndrome with hallucinations, hyperreflexia and clonus that was diagnosed as serotonin syndrome after she had received tramadol in addition to her usual desvenlafaxine. She was transferred to the intensive care unit for observation and symptomatic treatment, and this syndrome and her headache resolved over the course of her admission without specific treatment. Approximately 2 months after discharge when the patient was well and asymptomatic, she was followed up with investigations that included lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This scan identified an oblong-shaped intraspinal extradural collection at the level of the L3–4 intervertebral disc with approximate dimensions of 4 × 40 × 6 mm, with a signal consistent with CSF (Figure 1). There was no compression of the thecal sac. The conclusion from the reporting radiologist was that this would ‘likely represent an area of controlled small CSF leak’. A provisional plan to repeat the scan to assess the collection’s progress was made, but no other specific intervention was undertaken. Magnetic resonance imaging 2 months postpartum. Thick arrows point to the cystic lesion, thin arrow points to the effaced epidural space. One year later, a further lumbar spine MRI was performed (Figure 2), and the collection present on the previous scan was again noted, with a minimal increase in dimensions. The patient was similarly asymptomatic. Subsequent to this scan it was felt that the cystic lesion most likely represented a pre-existing arachnoid cyst and that the original dural punctures were related to effacement of the posterior epidural space12,13 caused by the presence of the cyst. Magnetic resonance imaging 14 months postpartum showing persistence of the lumbar cystic lesion. Approximately one year later, the patient was pregnant with her second child. A vaginal delivery was planned, and she was seen in the antenatal anaesthetic assessment clinic to discuss planning for labour analgesia. Given that the cyst was unchanged on two prior MRI scans, we elected not to repeat the scan, and to assume that the cyst was still present at the L3–4 level. The patient’s health was otherwise unchanged, although she was anxious about labour and felt that, despite her previous experience, epidural analgesia was required to allow successful vaginal delivery. Her case was discussed at a departmental meeting, and it was felt that if delivery by Caesarean section was required, an attempt at placement of a single-shot subarachnoid anaesthetic would be reasonable (given that the previous presumed intrathecal catheter had been effective) but that treating anaesthetists should have a low threshold for general anaesthesia. Multidisciplinary discussion took place to allow coordination of a delivery plan (induction on a given date), radiological consultation to allow ultrasound identification of the L3–4 level (to avoid) and a higher level (to place an epidural), and senior anaesthesia support to place an early epidural. Despite these plans, the patient presented early with ruptured membranes and contractions. Fortunately, a radiologist familiar with the patient was on duty and performed an ultrasound scan that identified the L3–4 level, and the anaesthetist who had seen her twice in the antenatal anaesthetic clinic was also on duty and placed the epidural at the L1–2 level. Initial attempts at the L2–3 level had led to cannulation of an epidural vein, but no CSF was encountered. The patient had successful labour analgesia, as well as a top-up for removal of retained placenta. This top-up consisted of divided doses of 15 ml of lidocaine 2% with adrenaline and achieved a block to T4–T6 and patient comfort throughout the procedure. She was well when discharged from hospital, and when followed up by phone several weeks postpartum.