Initial procedure: left L4-5 laminectomy A 42-year-old male presented with chronic low back pain that had been ongoing for many years. He had a surgical history of an L5-S1 fusion and reported reinjury to his back. He had no other relevant medical or personal history. He had undergone multimodal conservative treatment through a series of epidural injections, physical therapy, and daily pain management with anti-inflammatory and narcotic medication use. He was diagnosed with spinal stenosis and elected for a left L4-5 laminectomy. Intraoperatively, the laminectomy was performed using the minimally invasive tubular retraction (MITR) technique. The VersaWrap sheet was cut into 1 cm x 1 cm squares, advanced through the tube, and placed onto the peripheral nerve root and the adjacent dura, under the lamina of the spine (Figure 1). The VersaWrap wetting solution was added dropwise to the sheet to create a tissue-adherent, conformable, gelatinous hydrogel layer (Figure 2). Depo-Medrol (80 mg) and Marcaine/epinephrine (1 mL) were applied separately on top of the VersaWrap to reduce immediate postoperative pain and inflammation. Image reproduced with permission from Alafair Biosciences, Inc., Austin, TX, USA Image reproduced with permission from Alafair Biosciences, Inc., Austin, TX, USA Second procedure: left L4-5 revision laminectomy At 21 months post-operative, the patient had recurrent disk herniation and significant spinal stenosis along with correlating radicular pain down his left leg. The patient was diagnosed with post-laminectomy syndrome and elected for a left L4-5 laminectomy revision. During reoperation, the revision procedure was performed using the MITR technique. The surgeon noted that the previously applied VersaWrap (left L4-5 laminectomy) had completely bioresorbed. When he encountered scar tissue, he was able to easily remove this tissue from the nerve root and adjacent tissues without significant mechanical disruption. Surgeon experience was that the scar on tissues where VersaWrap was not previously placed (L5-S1 fusion) was significantly thicker when compared to the scar on tissues where VersaWrap was applied in the initial laminectomy (Video 1). After the scar tissue was completely removed, the VersaWrap sheet was cut into 1 cm x 1 cm squares, advanced through the tube, and placed on the peripheral nerve root and the adjacent dura, under the lamina of the spine. The VersaWrap wetting solution was added to the sheet dropwise to create a hydrogel layer (Video 2). Depo-Medrol (80 mg) and Marcaine/epinephrine (1 mL) were applied separately on top of the VersaWrap to reduce immediate postoperative pain and inflammation.