A 77-year-old man presented with fever of unknown origin and back pain 1 month ago. His family physician examined a blood sample. His initial C-reactive protein (CRP) was 18.72 mg/dL, and white cell count (WBC) was 11,600/μL. At first, oral antibiotics with a new quinolone were administered for 2 weeks; however, the inflammatory markers in the blood tests further increased. Thus, it was changed to Cefcapene pivoxil and administered for 10 days. The fever gradually decreased, but his back pain worsened. His medical history included type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM), angina pectoris, benign prostatic hyperplasia, cervical spondylosis (C7/Th1 post-laminectomy), dyslipidemia, and appendicitis. He visited my outpatient clinic without a referral. He suffered from intolerable back pain but showed no neurological deficits. He was urgently admitted to our hospital. On admission, laboratory findings demonstrated increased CRP (4.86 mg/dL), WBC (10,800/μL), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (71/mm at 1 hr). His hemoglobin A1c was 6.3% indicating good control. His renal function and coagulation tests (prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time) were within normal ranges. Hepatitis B surface antigen and anti-hepatitis C virus antibody were negative. Blood and urine culture examinations were negative. Cardiac echocardiography showed no vegetations, suggesting infectious endocarditis. A whole-body computed tomography (CT) scan revealed no infectious lesions. The L2 lower and L3 upper endplates were damaged, but the vertebral bodies were not yet severely destroyed (Fig. 1A). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) indicated that spondylodiscitis was identified at the L2/3 level. The cartilage endplates and intervertebral disc were grossly disrupted, displaying extensive high signals on T2-weighted images (Fig. 1B). He was diagnosed with spondylodiscitis. Initial clinical images. (A) Initial CT demonstrated bony erosion at the L2 lower and L3 upper endplates. Initial magnetic resonance imaging on emergent admission. (B) T2-weighted image indicated extensive high signals that revealed spondylodiscitis at the L2/3 level. CT: computed tomography He wore a soft corset and remained on bed rest as much as possible. Considering the incidence of causative bacteria reported in previous literature, we selected ampicillin (ABPC), followed by clindamycin (CLDM) and sulbactam/ampicillin (SBT/ABPC) targeting Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli. However, these drugs were not effective. Three weeks after admission, CRP was increased to 11.05 mg/dL, while WBC decreased to 5,900/μL. Therefore, we performed endoscopic surgery to obtain samples and perform drainage. The endoscopic surgery was performed via the left L2/3 transforaminal approach using the inside-outside technique after discography with indigocarmine. Intraoperative endoscopic images showed fragmented cartilage endplates and an abscess in the damaged intervertebral disc space. We collected endplates and lumbar disc materials for culture samples. Then, we irrigated the operative field with approximately 6 liters of saline solution and coagulated the fragmented tissues. The next day, laboratory data showed a decreased CRP level (5.17 mg/dL). The intraoperative specimen culture was positive for Klebsiella oxytoca. As a result, the preoperatively administered ABPC, CLDM, and SBT/ABPC were resistant to this bacterium. Based on the susceptibility, we selected antibiotics consisting of 2,000 mg per day of cefotaxime (CTX) intravenously in combination with oral minocycline (MINO) at 200 mg per day for one month, during which his laboratory data returned to the normal range. We discontinued CTX, but continued MINO for another month until radiographical images showed improvement. His back pain gradually improved in parallel with laboratory and radiographic findings. We instructed him to wear a soft corset for 6 months. Finally, the collapsed vertebral bodies did not fuse on the postoperative 1-year CT image (Fig. 2A). There was remarkable deformity without instability on the postoperative 1-year dynamic X-rays (Fig. 2B-D). However, additional fusion surgery was not needed due to improvement in back pain and the absence of new neurological deficits. Postoperative 1-year images. (A) Bony fusion was not achieved on the postoperative 1-year CT image. (B, C, D) Obvious instability was not present on the postoperative 1-year dynamic X-rays. CT: computed tomography