Informed consent was obtained for three asymptomatic adult males aged 32, 50, and 60 years (University of Alberta Human Research Ethics Board Pro00119359). All data were processed and stored confidentially, and personal data were handled in accordance with the Personal Information Protection Act (PIPA Alberta). Stored data werepseudo-anonymoused in a separate approved and secure database using an anonymous trial number as subject identification. Participants were scanned in the Peter S. Allen MR Research Centre. Standard Sagittal T2 Dixon MRI images were obtained from a clinical 3T MRI system (Magnetom Prisma, Siemens Healthineers, Erlangen, Germany) using an 18Ch-body coil. The 3-D wave fields were acquired by echo-planar imaging (EPI) with flow-compensated motion-encoding gradients. Eight wave-phase offsets were recorded for each of the three motion directions. Four vibration frequencies were applied sequentially at 60, 70, 80, and 90 Hz using two pneumatic actuators placed bilaterally on the paravertebral muscles centered at the third lumbar level as shown in Figure 1. Postprocessing of the MMRE data was performed using a publicly available, k-MDEV [16] inversion algorithm (https://bioqic-apps.charite.de) resulting in shear wave speed (SWS) maps. Based on the acquired standard sagittal anatomical T2 TSE-weighted images and the MMRE scan, IVDs were manually segmented on the SWS maps and evaluated with the Pfirrmann grading scale of disc degeneration (1–5) performed by an experienced (+10 years) MRI spine researcher. Spearman's rank correlation was calculated to investigate the correlation between stiffness (SWS) and DDD. Statistical significance was assumed when the p value was < 0.01. Figure 2 displays sagittal T2 Dixon images and SWS maps—a surrogate parameter of tissue stiffness—illustrating the feasibility of high-resolution in vivo MMRE across all five lumbar discs. A plot of SWS against Pfirrmann grades (Figure 3, Table 1) demonstrates an inverse relationship between increasing IVD stiffness and progressive DDD (Spearman's rank correlation coefficient ρ = −0.792, p < 0.001).