A 48-year-old healthy female triathlete presented to our outpatient clinic with pain in the left gluteal region persisting for two years, especially during sporting activities. No relevant past medical history. Neurological examination of the patient was unremarkable, showing normal flexibility and mild tenderness over the left sacroiliac joint. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography revealed multisegmental degenerative changes with a right convex scoliosis, multisegmental disc extrusion without relevant stenosis, osteochondrosis L2/3, L4/5, and L5/S1, facet joint arthrosis L3/4, and left-sided LSTV (Castellvi type 1a) (Figure 1a,b). Prior to our consultation, the conservative treatment consisted of diagnostic–therapeutic infiltration of the L4-S1 levels and the sacroiliac joint, providing only temporary relief. Pathologies of the spinal canal, facet joints, and sacroiliac joints therefore appeared less likely as a differential source of pain. Repeated infiltrations of the L5/S1 pseudoarticulation later confirmed the diagnosis of Bertolotti syndrome but failed to achieve pain relief lasting for more than three weeks. Additional conservative treatments, including physiotherapy, manual therapy, chiropractic interventions, thermocoagulation, and radiofrequency ablation of the pseudoarticulation, were also ineffective in the long term. The patient continued to experience significant pain during physical activities such as running and swimming, resulting in a major impact on her quality of life. As the conservative treatment was exhausted, surgical reduction of the left L5 transverse process was performed. For the surgery with general anesthesia, the patient was positioned in a prone position on a Wilson frame. The L5/S1 neoarticulation was visualized using X-ray control (anterior–posterior and lateral beam path). Following a paramedian skin incision on the left L5/S1 level and dissection of the fascia and paravertebral musculature, a Caspar retractor was inserted. The caudal part of the transverse process L5 was reduced microsurgically using a 6 mm diamond drill and bone punch (Figure 1 and Figure 2). Strong adhesions to the pelvis were exposed and the L4 nerve root could be visualized. Following a three-night stay, the patient was discharged home without any peri- or postoperative complications. Postoperative follow-up visits up to six months showed a satisfactory resolution of her chronic gluteal pain, allowing her to resume marathon training. At the most recent consultation, a year after surgery, the patient reported a pain reduction of at least 70% compared to before the surgery. This case highlights the effectiveness of surgical intervention for refractory Bertolotti syndrome, especially in active patients with significant functional impairment.