A 32-year-old male from the Somalia region of Ethiopia presented with a history of chronic lower back pain that had worsened over the preceding month, with lower back swelling, unquantified weight loss, and a slight limp. He also reported intermittent, mild lower quadrant abdominal pain. Physical examination revealed a chronically ill with stable vital sign. A 7 × 5 cm soft tissue swelling, localized to the lumbar area. Due to late presentation and the lack of advanced imaging capabilities such as CT scans at our facility, the diagnostic process was challenging. Spinal swelling was noted, and after incision and drainage, the discharge was analyzed using GeneXpert and Mycobacterium tuberculosis was detected by GeneXpert confirming a diagnosis of spinal tuberculosis, and an abdominal ultrasound showed a psoas abscess. The patient was started on anti-TB therapy and is improving, A 32-year-old male patient from the Somalia region of Ethiopia presented with a long-standing history of lower back pain. The pain had increased in intensity over the past month prior to presentation and was associated with mild swelling in the lower back, significant but unquantified weight loss, and a slight limp. He also reported mild, intermittent lower quadrant abdominal pain. The lower back swelling had progressively increased, becoming visibly noticeable. The patient denied any cough, fever, or generalized weakness. He also denied any known chronic medical conditions and reported no history of back trauma. On physical examination, the patient appeared chronically ill and emaciated. Vital signs were stable. Lymphadenopathy was absent. Chest auscultation revealed clear and resonant breath sounds. A 7 × 5 cm soft tissue swelling was noted in the lower back region, localized around the lumbar area and slightly to the right side. Tenderness was elicited upon palpation of the lower back region. The lower motor examination was normal, and other physical findings were unremarkable. The patient underwent laboratory investigations, including a Complete Blood Count (CBC), which revealed mild anemia with a hemoglobin level of 11 g/dl and a low mean corpuscular volume (MCV) of 60 fL. The white blood cell (WBC) and platelet counts were within normal limits. The Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) was elevated at 40 mm/h. Baseline liver and renal function tests were within normal ranges. The patient tested negative for HIV. A chest X-ray was reported as normal (Fig. 1). A thoracolumbar X-ray is presented as Fig. 2, showed sclerosis, anterior wedging and hight loss of T11 and L1 vertebral bodies with a 3 cm measuring soft tissue attenuating perivertebral mass suggesting TB spondylodiscitis with prevertebral collection. There is also blurring of lateral margin of the bilateral psoas shadow (psoas sign suggesting retroperitoneal mass). An abdomino-pelvic ultrasound is presented as Fig. 3 showed 18cmx6cmx5cm measuring echo complex left retroperitoneal collection on the left psoas muscle. There was also a 5cmx3cm x 6 cm measuring echo complex Right psoas collection with a fistulous tract extending from the collection and opens to the skin at right lumbar area. An open surgical incision and drainage procedure was performed on the lower back collection, yielding approximately 1 l of serosanguinous fluid, which was sent for GeneXpert testing. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) was detected, with no rifampicin resistance identified while negative for gram stain and AFB.Fig. 1Normal Chest x ray.Fig. 1Fig. 2Thoracolumbar x ray showed Sclerosis, anterior wedging and hight loss of T11 and L1 vertebral bodies with a 3 cm measuring soft tissue attenuating perivertebral mass There is also blurring of lateral margin of the bilateral psoas shadow (psoas sign suggesting retroperitoneal mass).Fig. 2Fig. 3Abdomino-pelvic ultrasound showed 18 cm × 6 cm × 5 cm measuring echo complex left retroperitoneal collection on the left psoas muscle.Fig. 3 Normal Chest x ray. Thoracolumbar x ray showed Sclerosis, anterior wedging and hight loss of T11 and L1 vertebral bodies with a 3 cm measuring soft tissue attenuating perivertebral mass There is also blurring of lateral margin of the bilateral psoas shadow (psoas sign suggesting retroperitoneal mass). Abdomino-pelvic ultrasound showed 18 cm × 6 cm × 5 cm measuring echo complex left retroperitoneal collection on the left psoas muscle. Based on the clinical findings and investigations, a diagnosis of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (Pott's disease with bilateral psoas abscesses) was made. The patient was initiated on antituberculosis therapy with a regimen of 2 months of rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol (2RHZE), followed by 10 months of rifampicin and isoniazid (10RH), in accordance with national and World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. The patient is currently in his fourth month of antituberculosis treatment and is responding well, with a documented decrease in the size of the left psoas abscess. The right psoas abscess has resolved following drainage.