A 64-year-old female with a history of hypertension and morbid obesity was scheduled for an ALIF at L5/S1 due to adjacent segment disease (ASD) and foraminal stenosis at that level. Intraoperatively, after manipulation of the peritoneum and blunt dissection around the aortic bifurcation, her heart rate (HR) suddenly dropped to 50 beats per minute (bpm), followed by a rapid decrease in blood pressure (BP) and cardiac arrest. Immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and administration of ephedrine successfully restored spontaneous circulation within 30 seconds. The surgical and anesthesia teams promptly decided to abort the operation. Further evaluation revealed no evidence of myocardial infarction, and the patient made a full recovery. This rare event suggests that hyper vagal stimulation from manipulation of the superior hypogastric plexus (SHP) and peritoneum may be a possible mechanism. It underscores the critical importance of vigilant monitoring, prompt intervention, and effective communication between surgical and anesthesia teams to manage acute hemodynamic instability during high-risk spinal surgeries. A 64-year-old female presented with low back pain and left-sided S1 radiculopathy, lasting for a year. Neurological examination revealed normal motor power and reflexes but decreased pinprick sensation on the left-sided S1 dermatome. Radiographs showed posterior spinal fixation at the L3–5 with L3/4 and L4/5 interbody cage placement. (Figure 1). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed evidence of previous right-sided L4 laminotomy and oblique lumbar interbody cages at L3/4 and L4/5. At L5/S1, there was severe disc space narrowing, causing stenosis of bilateral L5/S1 neural foramina (Figure 2). She was diagnosed with adjacent segment disease (ASD) with bilateral foraminal stenosis at L5/S1. Conservative treatment failed to relieve her symptoms. So, ALIF at L5/S1 was planned as definitive treatment. The patient had undergone OLIF at L3–5 with posterior fixation five years earlier and was subsequently diagnosed with ASD at L5/S1 with instability. (A,B) Plain radiographs showing posterior spinal fixation from L3 to L5 with interbody cages at L3/4 and L4/5. (C) Flexion view demonstrating severe collapse of the L5/S1 intervertebral disc space. (D) Extension view showing a vacuum disc sign. ASD, adjacent segment disease; OLIF, oblique lumbar interbody fusion. Lumbar spine MRI showed prior OLIF at L3–5 with posterior fixation and pathology at the L5/S1 level. (A) Sagittal MRI demonstrating posterior spinal fixation with pedicle screw-rod constructs at L3–L5 and interbody cages at L3/4 and L4/5. (B) Axial MRI at L5/S1 showing bilateral neural foraminal stenosis. (C,D) Right and left parasagittal MRI views showing compression of the bilateral L5 exiting nerve roots. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging; OLIF, oblique lumbar interbody fusion. Preoperative review revealed morbid obesity [body mass index (BMI) was 41.7 kg/m2] and well-controlled hypertension treated with enalapril 5 milligrams (mg) twice daily. Her anesthetic history included (I) general anesthesia (GA) for undergoing oblique lumbar interbody fusion (OLIF) L3–5 with microscopic posterior decompression at L4/5 5 years ago and (II) epidural spinal anesthesia for right total hip arthroplasty 3 years ago. Her blood pressure (BP) was well-controlled, and the electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed a normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 75 bpm. After admission, BP and HR were monitored following the hospital protocol and remained within her normal range. Preoperative laboratory tests were all within normal range. The last dose of medication was enalapril 5 mg, taken in the evening, the day before surgery. On arrival at the operating theatre, her BP and HR were 130/80 mmHg and 82 bpm, and her room-air peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) was 99%. Standard monitoring equipment for HR, BP, SpO2, and end-tidal capnography (ETCO2) was established. Invasive BP monitoring was not used, as it is not part of routine monitoring for this procedure. An intravenous infusion of 300 milliliters (mL) of Ringer’s acetate solution was administered. GA was induced with 150 mg of propofol and 50 micrograms (µg) of fentanyl. Muscle relaxation was achieved with 10 mg of IV cisatracurium. The patient was subsequently intubated and connected to mechanical ventilation. ETCO2 was maintained at about 35 mmHg. Anesthesia was maintained with 50% oxygen with air and sevoflurane. She was positioned supine (Figure 3), and the skin was scrubbed using sterile technique. The anterior approach for the ALIF procedure was performed by an experienced spine surgeon. A transverse mini-Pfannenstiel skin incision was made on the left side just lateral to the midline, followed by blunt dissection of subcutaneous layer until left-sided anterior rectus sheath was identified. The anterior rectus sheath was then opened longitudinally by sharp dissection using electrocautery. Then, the lateral border of the rectus muscle was identified and mobilized medially to expose the underlying arcuate line and transversalis fascia. While mobilizing the muscles and gaining access to retroperitoneal space through the transversalis fascia, her HR decreased to 50–55 bpm, followed by a decrease in BP to 78/40 mmHg shortly after the onset of bradycardia. The anesthetist administered 6 mg of ephedrine, which resulted in an increase in HR to 75–85 bpm and BP to 100/60 mmHg. The surgery proceeded, and the OLIF51™ triple arm retractors system (Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN, USA) was used to gently move aside peritoneal and abdominal contents to the midline. The surgeon carefully identified and mobilized the aortic bifurcation, which lies in front of the L5/S1 disc in this patient. In the meantime, the assistant surgeons had to use more force than usual to stabilize the retractors due to the patient’s morbid obesity and very large abdomen. While mobilizing the left common iliac artery (LCIA), the anesthesiologist quickly noted severe bradycardia, and the carotid pulse was not palpable (Figure 4). The procedure was halted, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) protocol was initiated immediately. Return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) was achieved within 30 seconds following the CPR, no inotropic drugs were administered. A 12-lead ECG revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 70 bpm with no sign of myocardial ischemia/infarction, such as ST-T changes. An arterial line (A-line) was subsequently placed under ultrasonographic guidance, The arterial blood gas (ABG) results showed a potential of hydrogen (pH) of 7.38, bicarbonate (HCO3) of 24.5, partial pressure of carbon dioxide (pCO2) of 41, partial pressure of oxygen (pO2) of 425.7, potassium (K) of 4.53, and lactate of 0.8. High-sensitivity cardiac troponin I (hs-cTnI) was below 1.6 nanograms per liter (ng/L). A bedside echocardiogram revealed no signs of myocardial infarction and a fair left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). The surgeon and anesthesiologist discussed the situation and decided to defer the surgery. The wound was then closed layer by layer. A total of 1,200 mL of IV fluids was administered and urine output was 350 mL intraoperatively. Once the patient was stable, she was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU). The patient was placed in the supine position with both hips abducted. The surgeon was positioned at the midline for the anterior spinal approach, with two assistant surgeons positioned on each side. She had morbid obesity (BMI was 41.7 kg/m2) and very large abdomen. This image is published with the patient’s consent. BMI, body mass index. The anesthesia report showed that 20 minutes after the operation began, while mobilizing the LCIA for access to the L5/S1 spine, and with the retractor system already placed with more force than usual due to the large abdomen, severe bradycardia occurred (red arrow), followed by hypotension and subsequent cardiac arrest. LCIA, left common iliac artery. At the ICU, the patient was fully conscious, her vital signs were stable, and no inotropic drugs were needed. Postoperative laboratory results were all normal, including hs-cTnI. The endotracheal tube (ETT) was removed the next morning. On postoperative day 1 (POD1), the patient transitioned from intubation to an oxygen cannula. She was monitored in the ICU for one more day before being transferred to standard surgical ward. On POD2, she was able to ambulate in bed, and by POD3, she could sit up and walk with a walker. The patient and her relatives were counseled about the intraoperative events by the surgical and anesthesia teams. It was jointly decided to treat the L5/S1 condition on the next admission. She was discharged on POD3. The treatment plan was discussed between the surgeon and the patient at a 2-week follow-up, and the minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS-TLIF) at L5/S1 was considered on the next admission. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for the publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.