For L3-L5 lumbar stenosis and L4/5 grade I spondylolisthesis, a 64-year-old female underwent a L3/4 XLIF (extreme lateral lumbar interbody fusion) and L4/5 posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF with pedicle screw fixation). Notably, during the PLIF, there was likely a traumatic DT (i.e., likely unrecognized at the time or not repaired); mistakenly, the surgeons applied a drain using maximal negative pressure. Within 8 postoperative h, the patient developed a severe headache and rapid neurological deterioration. The brain computed tomography revealed bilateral cerebellar hemorrhages with tonsillar herniation. Despite an emergent suboccipital craniotomy for hematoma evacuation, the patient expired on postoperative day 13. A 64-year-old female presented with bilateral neurogenic claudication, numbness, and weakness consistent with magnetic resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT)-documented L3-L5 stenosis and L4-L5 grade I spondylolisthesis [Figures 1a and b]. She underwent a L3/4 extreme lateral interbody fusion (XLIF) and L4/5 posterior lumbar pedicle/screw-interbody fusion (PLIF) [Figure 2]. At the end of the PLIF, an epidural drain was placed under “maximum negative pressure.” However, within 8 postoperative h, she experienced a severe headache and became comatose (i.e., Glasgow coma scale score 3). The brain CT revealed bilateral cerebellar hemorrhages (i.e., vermis/bilateral hemispheres displayed the “zebra sign”) [Figure 3]. Despite an emergent bilateral suboccipital decompressive craniotomy for hematoma evacuation, and optimal medical management, she remained comatose and expired 13 days later [Figure 4]. (a and b): (a) Preoperative CT showing L4/5 grade I spondylolisthesis, and (b) Preoperative MRI demonstrating spinal canal stenosis at L4/5. Postoperative lateral radiograph demonstrating instrumentation following L3/4 Extreme Lateral Interbody Fusion (XLIF) and L4/5 Posterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion (PLIF). CT showing bilateral cerebellar hemorrhage with zebra sign. Postoperative CT after suboccipital craniotomy.