An 18-year-old male presented to a community hospital in September 2023 with left-sided neck and mandible swelling associated with night sweats. Initial workup was remarkable for a complete blood count of peripheral blood with a WBC of 37.0 K/mm3 with 11% of monocytes and 41% of undifferentiated blasts; a CT scan reported bilateral submandibular, anterior cervical, axillary, and inguinal lymphadenopathies. A cervical lymph node core biopsy reported the presence of atypical proliferation of medium-to-large cells with round-to-irregular nuclei and fine chromatin, with CD13+, CD33+, and lysozyme+ on flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry, consistent with lymph node involvement by myeloid blasts. He was subsequently referred to our institution. At presentation, he had significant leukocytosis of 40.0 K/mm3, and flow cytometry of peripheral blood reported a prominent (55%) blast population characterized by the expression of CD34, CD117 (partial), CD13, CD33, CD123, HLA-DR, CD38, TdT, CD7, and minimal expression of myeloperoxidase (MPO), with negativity for B-cell and other T-cell markers, immunophenotypically consistent with AML. Chromosome analysis reported a complex profile 46,XY,del(1)(p36.1),del(9) (q13q22),-10,inv(11)(q21q23),-12,-16,+mar1-3 in 18 out of 20 analyzed cells. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis on the peripheral blood reported loss of 16q22.1 (CBFB), loss of 12p13.2 (ETV6), and gain of 19p13.3 (TCF3). Next-generation sequencing (NGS) reported MLLT10, PHF6, and PTPNH mutations. Given the high percentage of myeloid blasts in the peripheral blood, a bone marrow (BM) examination was deferred, and the patient received induction CTX with 7+3 regimen (seven days of cytarabine and three days of idarubicin). A BM examination on day 15 of induction revealed a hypocellular BM (<10%) with mildly increased blasts (approximately 10%). Given these findings and his poor-risk cytogenetics, the patient was recommended to receive high-dose cytarabine (HiDAC) for re-induction; however, he declined and opted to be discharged once he would not be transfusion-dependent. A subsequent BM examination performed as outpatient on day 30 after induction CTX reported maturating trilineage hematopoiesis with left-shifted myelopoiesis and no increase in blasts, consistent with complete morphologic remission; flow cytometry also reported a heterogeneous cell population and no increase in blasts; cytogenetics reported a karyotype (46, XY). The patient received one cycle of consolidation CTX with HiDAC and was referred for stem cell transplantation (SCT) consideration. However, the patient decided not to pursue a transplant due to concerns about potential side effects. Subsequently, he did not return to the clinic and was lost to follow-up. In September 2024, the patient presented to a community hospital with a four-month history of slowly progressive right upper extremity paresthesia associated with posterior neck and mid-low back pain that eventually advanced to severe sensory deficits and paresis of both lower extremities and limited ambulation, along with urinary retention and constipation. He also had a 35-lb unintentional weight loss over three to four months. A whole spine MRI reported multilevel nerve root thickening and enhancement from C1 to T3 and L5 to S3, as well as multiple enhancing intradural extramedullary masses (Figure 1). The cervical lesions were causing significant thecal sac stenosis and cord compression, and the cauda equina was thickened with multiple foci of enhancement. The patient received three days of RT along with high-dose CS. Neurosurgery and neuro-interventional radiology were consulted to consider a potential biopsy of spinal masses; however, this was deferred as they considered it a high-risk procedure with a very high likelihood these lesions were representing MS in the setting of previously treated AML. He was then referred again to our institution. Following RT, the patient reported partial improvement in his neurologic deficits. Physical examination revealed paresis and hypoesthesia in his right arm and bilateral lower extremities, with the right worse than the left. A complete blood count (Table 1) reported hemoglobin (Hgb) 12.0 g/dL, WBC 3.9 K/mm3, and platelet count 99 k/mm3, with a normal differential count and no circulating blasts. A computed tomography (CT) scan with intravenous contrast of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis showed no disease in these locations. A BM aspiration was performed, and he was started on systemic CTX for induction with MEC regimen (mitoxantrone, etoposide, and cytarabine) for five days. Unfortunately, the BM aspirate sample was inadequate for evaluation. His strength and sensation improved progressively over the next several days, and he could walk with a cane. On day 5 post-induction, a lumbar puncture for CSF analysis and intrathecal (IT) CTX (methotrexate, cytarabine, hydrocortisone) administration was performed. The CSF contained myeloid blasts, confirmed by cytology and flow cytometry, and was consistent with central nervous system (CNS) involvement by AML. A subsequent brain MRI showed abnormal enhancement along the left oculomotor nerve (Figure 2), raising concern for leptomeningeal disease. A repeat whole-spine MRI on day 15 post-induction reported a partial response demonstrated by shrinking the intraspinal masses, spine nerve roots, and cauda equina thickening. After improving the platelet count, he received another dose of IT CTX. After the patient achieved count recovery, he was discharged with the plan to continue his care close to home. BUN: blood ureic nitrogen; CBC: complete blood count; CTX: chemotherapy; RBC: red blood cells; WBC: white blood cells