A 37-year-old female working as a Pilates instructor and long-term resident in China, presented to our orthopedic department with a chief complaint of recurrent lower back pain for over 2 years, aggravated by right buttock radiating pain for 1 week. On admission, her visual analogue scale score was 6, and her Japanese Orthopedic Association score was 14. Physical examination revealed preserved spinal physiological curvature, tenderness over the L5/S1 interspace, radiating pain in the right buttock, and a positive straight leg raise test (50°) on the right side (negative on the left). Muscle strength assessment showed grade IV+ for the right great toe dorsiflexion and right ankle dorsiflexion, grade V for the right iliopsoas, and grade V for the left lower limb. A sensory examination revealed no numbness in the lower extremities. Peripheral circulation and physiological reflexes were intact bilaterally with negative Babinski signs. Lumbar anteroposterior, lateral, and flexion-extension radiographs indicated grade I spondylolisthesis at L5/S1 (according to the Meyerding classification[12]) with bilateral L5 pars defects (spondylolysis). Lumbar CT revealed complete instability of the bilateral L5/S1 facet joints and right-sided L5/S1 disc herniation compressing the S1 nerve root. A special structure-floating lamina was considered in this case. Lumbar MRI revealed a large, right-sided L5/S1 disc herniation with an upwardly migrated free fragment. Based on imaging findings and clinical symptoms, the patient met the criteria for lumbar interbody fusion surgery. The preoperative radiological images are shown in Figure 1. Preoperative radiological images. Red arrow: bilateral L5 pars defects (spondylolysis); white arrow: floating lamina; red triangle: herniated and free disc. The timeline of clinical changes and management is summarized in Table 1. The patient and her husband signed the informed consent of the operation. On the second day after admission, a conventional posterior lumbar interbody fusion[13] was performed. This procedure involved pedicle screw instrumentation at L5 and S1, right L5 hemilaminectomy, and L5/S1 discectomy with interbody cage placement (Fig. 2). Timeline of condition change and clinical management. CSF = cerebrospinal fluid, JOA = Japanese Orthopaedic Association, MRI = magnetic resonance image, PLIF = posterior lumbar interbody fusion, VAS = visual analogue scale. Postoperative radiological images. Red arrow: the residual left lamina but unstable. No DT or CSF leakage occurred intraoperatively. We found the intact dural sac without any small tears. During the procedure, following a right hemilaminectomy for decompression, the residual left lamina was unstable. An interspinous ligament suture tightening procedure was performed to stabilize the lamina; however, this did not provide rigid fixation. The surgery was concluded with the patient reporting a visual analogue scale score of 3 and no lower extremity radiating pain. The surgical drain was removed on postoperative day 2 because of about 25 mL bloody liquid and sound skin of incision. The patient ambulated and performed simple activities while wearing the lumbar brace. On postoperative day 6, the patient complained of headache, predominantly frontal, radiating to the lumbar region. The headache worsened with walking and bending forward, and improved when lying flat. Analgesic medications were also administered. On postoperative day 9, the headache persisted without any relief. A neurological consultation was requested, recommending a brain MRI that showed no abnormalities. The neurologist suspected low-pressure headache and advised aggressive fluid hydration, antibiotic prophylaxis, and bed rest in the Trendelenburg position. At the beginning, we did not focus on the DT leading to headache. On postoperative day 10, the patient experienced significant lower back pain. The headache was markedly exacerbated by palpation of the lumbar region, and bulging was observed at the surgical site (Fig. 3A). Lumbar MRI revealed a large CSF collection suggestive of DT (Fig. 3B). On postoperative day 11, the patient was headache-free while supine but developed a headache with minimal activity. Bulging persisted at the surgical site. Bedside aspiration yielded clear, pale-yellow fluid. The analysis confirmed that the fluid was CSF (Fig. 3C). On postoperative day 12, the headache remained unrelieved and the surgical site continued to bulge. Considering the failure of conservative management, a second surgical exploration with drain placement was performed. Intraoperatively, a DT of approximately 3 mm in size was identified quickly and easily at the edge of the resected L5 lamina (Fig. 3D). The mobile left L5 lamina was deemed the cause; lumbar extension likely caused it to press ventrally against the dura, creating the tear. Consequently, residual left L5 lamina and spinous processes were completely removed. DT was repaired using interrupted 6 to 0 Prolene sutures. Dural closure was satisfactory, and no CSF leakage was observed (Fig. 3E). A 12-French silicone drain was placed at the surgical site. Clinical change and management of the case. (A) surgical site swelling; (B) lumbar MRI revealed significant cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage; (C) drainage yielded pale-yellow transparent fluid, laboratory analysis consistent with CSF; and (D, E) intraoperative manifestation during the reoperation. (F) MRI images at follow-up. Red arrow: CSF leak in the MRI images. White arrow: the site of dural tear. Black arrow: the site of repair for dural tear. CSF = cerebrospinal fluid, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. On the first day after the second surgery, the patient was headache-free with no incision bulging. The drain was patent. There was no lower extremity radiating pain, and motor and sensory functions were normal. The drain output was recorded daily and gradually decreased. By the seventh day after the second surgery, the patient remained asymptomatic with no incision bulging and no drain output, prompting drain removal. Third-generation cephalosporin antibiotics were administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection. The patient developed diarrhea, but infectious causes were ruled out by stool culture. Antibiotics were subsequently discontinued and the surgical wound underwent regular dressing changes. Two weeks after the second surgery, the wound healed well and the patient was discharged uneventfully. Follow-up lumbar MRI confirmed resolution of the CSF leak and satisfactory recovery (Fig. 3F). The patient shared the positive perspective on our treatment in the whole period in hospital. She had a strong compliance and an optimistic attitude. Close attention, meticulous care, good communication and determination to cure helped us solve this case in the end.