A 59-year-old woman was admitted to our center with complaints of severe lower back pain and progressive weakness in her lower extremities over the past two days. She stated that she had been able to mobilize with support the day before admission, but on the day of admission, she was unable to move her legs at all. There was no history of trauma. Her known medical conditions were hypertension and arrhythmia. On examination, she had diffuse pain and numbness in both lower extremities. There was no urinary or fecal incontinence. Her Glasgow Coma Score was 15. Muscle strength was 1/5 in both lower extremities. Bilateral deep tendon reflexes were normal, but bilateral clonus and Babinski reflexes were positive. The patient underwent a thoracolumbar spinal MRI. The MRI revealed an acute compression fracture of the superior endplate of the T12 vertebral body with a 40% height loss. Beginning at this level and extending inferiorly along the lumbar spine in the anterior epidural space, there was a 1 mm thick T1 isointense, T2 hyperintense epidural hematoma in the hyperacute stage. Additionally, a T1 isointense, T2 hypointense subdural hematoma in the acute stage was observed, extending between the T11 and S1 levels in the anterior and posterior subdural space, with a maximum thickness of 7.5 mm measured at the T12 level. Due to these extra axial hematomas, the spinal canal was narrowed, most prominently at the T12 level, causing cord compression. Furthermore, T2 hyperintense subarachnoid hemorrhage was visible between the cauda equina fibers along the lumbar spinal canal, resulting in aggregation of the fibers (Fig. 1). Fig. 1An acute compression fracture of the T12 vertebral body with 40% height loss is observed (a-c, green arrow). At the lumbar level, a 1 mm thick epidural hematoma that is isointense on T1 weighted images (a) and hyperintense on T2 weighted and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) images (b, c) is present in the anterior epidural space, where the anterior epidural fatty tissue is not visible (red arrow). A subdural hematoma, isointense on T1 and hypointense on T2, extends from the T11 to S1 levels, with a maximum thickness of 7.5 mm in the anterior subdural space and involvement of the posterior subdural space as well (b-e, yellow arrow). On axial T2 images (d), the hematomas narrow the spinal canal and compress the spinal cord at the T12 level (purple arrow). Additionally, T2 axial images at the lumbar level (e) demonstrate hyperintense subarachnoid hemorrhage within the spinal canal, displacing the cauda equina fibers (white arrow) An acute compression fracture of the T12 vertebral body with 40% height loss is observed (a-c, green arrow). At the lumbar level, a 1 mm thick epidural hematoma that is isointense on T1 weighted images (a) and hyperintense on T2 weighted and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) images (b, c) is present in the anterior epidural space, where the anterior epidural fatty tissue is not visible (red arrow). A subdural hematoma, isointense on T1 and hypointense on T2, extends from the T11 to S1 levels, with a maximum thickness of 7.5 mm in the anterior subdural space and involvement of the posterior subdural space as well (b-e, yellow arrow). On axial T2 images (d), the hematomas narrow the spinal canal and compress the spinal cord at the T12 level (purple arrow). Additionally, T2 axial images at the lumbar level (e) demonstrate hyperintense subarachnoid hemorrhage within the spinal canal, displacing the cauda equina fibers (white arrow) Based on these findings, the decision was made to proceed with surgery by the neurosurgery team. Bilateral transpedicular fixation screws were placed at the T11, T12, and L1 levels. T12 left hemilaminectomy was then performed. It was determined that the neural root was detached, and the bleeding occurred from there. The root was decompressed, and Surgicel was applied for hemostasis. The operation was completed without complications. Postoperative MRI taken one week later revealed postoperative changes in the subcutaneous soft tissues at the thoracolumbar level and bilateral transpedicular fixation screws on T11-L1 levels. A 6 mm thick T1 and T2 hyperintense subdural collection, consistent with a late subacute stage hematoma, was observed in the anterior subdural space from the T12 to the S1 level. Aggregation of the cauda equina fibers, consistent with previous subarachnoid hemorrhage, was also noted. The epidural hematoma seen in the anterior epidural space in the prior examination was no longer visible (Fig. 2). The patient’s symptoms improved during the postoperative period, and she was discharged two weeks after surgery. Fig. 2Bilateral transpedicular fixation screws are present at the T11-L1 level, along with postoperative changes in the posterior subcutaneous soft tissues. A 7 mm thick subdural hematoma, hyperintense on both T1 weighted (a), T2 weighted, and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) (b, c) images, is observed in the anterior subdural space from T11 to S1 levels (yellow arrow). Clumping of the cauda equina fibers is noted, likely due to a previous subarachnoid hemorrhage (d, white arrow) Bilateral transpedicular fixation screws are present at the T11-L1 level, along with postoperative changes in the posterior subcutaneous soft tissues. A 7 mm thick subdural hematoma, hyperintense on both T1 weighted (a), T2 weighted, and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) (b, c) images, is observed in the anterior subdural space from T11 to S1 levels (yellow arrow). Clumping of the cauda equina fibers is noted, likely due to a previous subarachnoid hemorrhage (d, white arrow)