A 58-year-old man with a history of disc herniation surgery presented with lower back pain, bilateral sciatica, cruralgia, and sphincter dysfunction. Spinal MRI revealed an intra-dural, extra-medullary tumor, which was surgically removed and the patient had an uneventful postoperative recovery. Histopathological examination confirmed an angiomatous meningioma (WHO Grade 1). A 58-year-old man, surgically treated for disc herniation 6 years earlier, presented with lower back pain that had been ongoing for 4 months. Due to the nature of his work as a mason, he had been managing it with painkillers only. This progressed to bilateral sciatica and left-sided cruralgia. Five months later, he developed sphincter dysfunction, including acute urinary retention and constipation, which led him to consult. The initial clinical examination revealed a conscious patient (GCS 15) with equal and reactive pupils. There was no motor deficit, but the patient exhibited depressed deep tendon reflexes in the lower limbs, saddle hypoesthesia in the lower limbs, and a sensory level above the umbilicus. There were no signs of coordination or higher cortical function impairment. This led to a diagnosis of an incomplete cauda equina syndrome, evolving for 9 months without significant deficits. General physical examination showed normal blood pressure (130/80 mmHg), heart rate (84 bpm), and a normal temperature (37 °C). A spinal MRI revealed an intra-dural, extra-medullary lesion, oblong in shape, with well-defined regular contours. It appeared hypointense on T1W images and heterogeneously hyperintense on T2W images, with intense enhancement post-contrast. It extended from D12 to L3, with significant intra-canal venous collateral circulation and scalloping of adjacent vertebral bodies (Fig. 1).Fig. 1Pre-operative spinal MRI findings in sagittal T2-W (A), Sagittal T1-W (B), Sagittal T1-weighted after contrast administration (C), Coronal T2W FS (D), Axial T2W (E), DWI (F), and post-contrast axial images (G) revealing:An intradural extramedullary tumor extending from D12 to L3 (blue star), appearing hypointense on T1W images, hyperintense on T2W and DWI images, with strong enhancement after contrast administration.The tumor extends through the foramina, exerts a mass effect leading to ectasia of the venous spinal network, and displaces the conus medullaris and the cauda equina nerve roots (red arrow).Additionally, it is associated with scalloping of the adjacent vertebral bodies (yellow arrow). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)Fig. 1 Pre-operative spinal MRI findings in sagittal T2-W (A), Sagittal T1-W (B), Sagittal T1-weighted after contrast administration (C), Coronal T2W FS (D), Axial T2W (E), DWI (F), and post-contrast axial images (G) revealing: An intradural extramedullary tumor extending from D12 to L3 (blue star), appearing hypointense on T1W images, hyperintense on T2W and DWI images, with strong enhancement after contrast administration. The tumor extends through the foramina, exerts a mass effect leading to ectasia of the venous spinal network, and displaces the conus medullaris and the cauda equina nerve roots (red arrow). Additionally, it is associated with scalloping of the adjacent vertebral bodies (yellow arrow). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) After multidisciplinary consultation, the patient underwent surgical treatment involving total tumor resection. The histopathological analysis identified the lesion as an angiomatous meningioma, WHO Grade 1 (2016 classification) (Fig. 2). Postoperative recovery was uneventful, and the patient was placed under regular surveillance without notable incidents. He was able to undergo rehabilitation sessions with progressive improvement of his symptoms. Follow-up MRI shows no sign of recurrence and the patient remain asymptomatic five years later.Fig. 2Histopathological examination revealing:A: Low-power view showing a meningothelial-like tumor proliferation, interspersed with variably sized vessels with hyalinized endothelial walls in places (H&E, x100).B: Clusters of cells with ill-defined borders, characterized by eosinophilic cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei, associated with numerous vascular vessels (H&E, x200).Fig. 2 Histopathological examination revealing: A: Low-power view showing a meningothelial-like tumor proliferation, interspersed with variably sized vessels with hyalinized endothelial walls in places (H&E, x100). B: Clusters of cells with ill-defined borders, characterized by eosinophilic cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei, associated with numerous vascular vessels (H&E, x200).