A 16-year-old girl with a 1-year history of pulmonary tuberculosis was admitted for progressive neurological deterioration. She had previously received antituberculous therapy for 6 months with poor adherence. She presented with a 3-week history of progressive paraparesis. There was no known immunodeficiency. Laboratory investigations showed elevated inflammatory markers, including a C-reactive protein level of 40 mg/L and leukocytosis (11,000/mm³) with associated lymphopenia (900/mm³). Cerebrospinal fluid analysis demonstrated a positive Polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium tuberculosis, confirming central nervous system tuberculosis. Brain Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated multiple enhancing nodular lesions located in the right insular cortex, right parasagittal frontal region, mammillary bodies, and the right cerebral peduncle. These lesions were isointense on T1- and T2-weighted images without surrounding vasogenic edema and showed homogeneous enhancement after contrast administration. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) demonstrated no diffusion restriction with corresponding normal Apparent diffusion coefficient values. Susceptibility-weighted imaging (T2) showed no blooming artifact suggesting hemorrhage or calcification. No additional abnormal diffusion signal was identified in the remaining brain parenchyma. MR spectroscopy was not performed. In addition, subtle leptomeningeal and pachymeningeal enhancement was noted along the cortical sulci and basal cisterns (Fig. 1).Fig. 1Axial brain MRI sequences including FLAIR (Fluid attenuatted inversion recovery) T2-weighted, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and post-contrast T1-weighted images. FLAIR and T2-weighted images show subtle parenchymal lesions without significant surrounding edema. Diffusion-weighted imaging demonstrates no diffusion restriction. Postcontrast T1-weighted images demonstrate nodular enhancing lesions involving the right insular region, the right parasagittal frontal cortex, and the right cerebral peduncle (red arrows). Associated pachymeningeal enhancement is also noted (blue arrow).Fig 1 – dummy alt text Axial brain MRI sequences including FLAIR (Fluid attenuatted inversion recovery) T2-weighted, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and post-contrast T1-weighted images. FLAIR and T2-weighted images show subtle parenchymal lesions without significant surrounding edema. Diffusion-weighted imaging demonstrates no diffusion restriction. Postcontrast T1-weighted images demonstrate nodular enhancing lesions involving the right insular region, the right parasagittal frontal cortex, and the right cerebral peduncle (red arrows). Associated pachymeningeal enhancement is also noted (blue arrow). In the clinical context of previously treated tuberculosis, these imaging findings were considered most compatible with intracranial solid granulomatous tuberculomas, although other differential diagnoses such as metastatic lesions, fungal granulomas, or inflammatory granulomatous disease were considered less likely. Spinal MRI demonstrated a long-segment intramedullary T2 hyperintensity extending from T3 to the conus medullaris, without significant postcontrast enhancement, compatible with extensive myelitis (Fig. 2).Fig. 2Sagittal spinal MRI sequences including T2-weighted, STIR (Short Tau Inversion Recover), T1-weighted, and postcontrast fat-suppressed T1-weighted images, along with axial images. Sagittal T2 and STIR images demonstrate a long-segment intramedullary hyperintensity extending from approximately T3 to the conus medullaris (red arrows), consistent with extensive myelitis. Postcontrast T1 fat-suppressed images show diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement along the thoracic spinal canal (blue arrows). Axial T2-weighted images confirm intramedullary signal abnormality, while axial postcontrast T1 fat-suppressed images demonstrate enhancing pachymeningeal thickening surrounding the spinal cord.Fig 2 – dummy alt text Sagittal spinal MRI sequences including T2-weighted, STIR (Short Tau Inversion Recover), T1-weighted, and postcontrast fat-suppressed T1-weighted images, along with axial images. Sagittal T2 and STIR images demonstrate a long-segment intramedullary hyperintensity extending from approximately T3 to the conus medullaris (red arrows), consistent with extensive myelitis. Postcontrast T1 fat-suppressed images show diffuse pachymeningeal enhancement along the thoracic spinal canal (blue arrows). Axial T2-weighted images confirm intramedullary signal abnormality, while axial postcontrast T1 fat-suppressed images demonstrate enhancing pachymeningeal thickening surrounding the spinal cord. There was associated diffuse pachymeningeal thickening and enhancement extending from T1 to the filum terminale, consistent with pachymeningitis (Fig. 2). In addition, a posterior epidural collection located at the L2-L4 vertebral levels was identified, measuring approximately 68 × 7 mm, with peripheral rim enhancement, suggestive of an epidural abscess (Fig. 3).Fig. 3Sagittal spinal MRI sequences including T2-weighted, T1-weighted, and postcontrast fat-suppressed T1-weighted images. Sagittal T2, T1 and postcontrast T1 fat-suppressed images demonstrate a posterior epidural collection located at the L2-L4 vertebral levels, measuring approximately 68 × 7 mm (red arrows), with peripheral rim enhancement (blue arrow), suggestive of an epidural abscess.Fig 3 – dummy alt text Sagittal spinal MRI sequences including T2-weighted, T1-weighted, and postcontrast fat-suppressed T1-weighted images. Sagittal T2, T1 and postcontrast T1 fat-suppressed images demonstrate a posterior epidural collection located at the L2-L4 vertebral levels, measuring approximately 68 × 7 mm (red arrows), with peripheral rim enhancement (blue arrow), suggestive of an epidural abscess. The vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs showed normal signal intensity and preserved height, with no evidence of spondylodiscitis, vertebral osteomyelitis, or paravertebral soft tissue collection. No intradural collection was identified (Figs. 2 and 3). Chest computed tomography revealed multiple centrilobular nodules with a tree-in-bud pattern, consistent with active endobronchial dissemination, There was no evidence of cavitation, consolidation, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, pleural effusion, or miliary pattern. (Fig. 4).Fig. 4Chest computed tomography in coronal an axial views revealed multiple centrilobular nodules with a tree-in-bud pattern (red arrows), consistent with active endobronchial dissemination.Fig 4 – dummy alt text Chest computed tomography in coronal an axial views revealed multiple centrilobular nodules with a tree-in-bud pattern (red arrows), consistent with active endobronchial dissemination. Abdominal CT demonstrated enlarged lymph nodes with central low attenuation. A perihepatic fluid collection measuring approximately 3 cm was identified anterior to the left hepatic lobe, with rim enhancement, suggestive of tuberculous abscess formation (Fig. 5).Fig. 5Abdominal CT in axial view demonstrated enlarged lymph nodes with central low attenuation (red arrow). A perihepatic fluid collection measuring approximately 3 cm was identified anterior to the left hepatic lobe, with rim enhancement, suggestive of tuberculous abscess formation (blue arrow).Fig 5 – dummy alt text Abdominal CT in axial view demonstrated enlarged lymph nodes with central low attenuation (red arrow). A perihepatic fluid collection measuring approximately 3 cm was identified anterior to the left hepatic lobe, with rim enhancement, suggestive of tuberculous abscess formation (blue arrow). Given the diagnosis of multifocal tuberculosis with neurological compromise, antituberculous therapy was reinitiated. Due to significant spinal cord compression, the patient underwent urgent decompressive laminectomy with drainage of the lumbar epidural collection. At follow-up, partial neurological improvement was observed under continued antituberculous treatment.