A 59-year-old female was initially evaluated and referred by a fellowship-trained headache neurologist with a history of severe refractory daily headaches. The patient reported a sudden onset of daily headaches approximately 3 years before presentation, with no prior history of headaches. The headache was said to have started as a low-grade, throbbing pain and was located primarily in the occipital region and radiating to the left ear. As her symptoms evolved, the headache worsened, spreading to the frontal area and accompanied by nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia, lightheadedness, vertigo, and near-syncope. Her headache pain intensity at presentation was rated at a visual analogue scale (VAS) of 6-8/10 and was aggravated by lying on her left side and being placed in the Trendelenburg position. Her worsening in the head down tilt and some relief with CSF volume removal suggested the possibility of an abnormal reset of her CSF pressure to an elevated state. Her outside diagnosis was chronic headache. The patient’s headaches were refractory to a range of migraine preventive treatments, including gabapentin, propranolol, topiramate, and venlafaxine, as well as minimally invasive procedures, including onabotulinum toxin A injections and greater occipital nerve blocks. Neuroimaging including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain (Supplementary S1), MR venogram (Supplementary S2), CT angiogram of the head (Supplementary S3), and neck (Supplementary S4) did not find a secondary cause including mass lesion, Chiari malformation, cerebral vein thrombosis or sinus stenosis and no aneurysm or dissection. The patient also underwent a lumbar puncture before her initial consultation. She had a normal opening pressure of 14 cmH2O, her headache felt somewhat better but only for 1-2 days, after which there was a recurrence back to baseline. She was prescribed a trial of sustained-release indomethacin at 75 mg once daily, but this was discontinued due to a severe headache exacerbation after only 2 doses. A subsequent trial with acetazolamide (125 mg at bedtime) provided temporary relief, reducing her headache to an average VAS score of 4. However, this improvement was short-lived, and her headaches intensified again after 3 months, even when her acetazolamide dose was increased to 500 mg extended-release twice daily. Due to the complexity of her refractory headache and the authors’ interest in a possible link to venous congestion syndromes, further imaging was conducted to investigate her venous anatomy. Patient consent was obtained, and the case report complied with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) regulations. MRI revealed compression of LCIV by the overlying RCIA, consistent with MTP (Figure 1), and time-resolved MR angiography (trMRA) revealed retrograde drainage of a posteriorly based ALV into the EVP, with potential congestion at this level. Although the exact source of EVP congestion was uncertain, it was hypothesized that severe compression of the LCIV by the overlying RCIA may be resulting in retrograde ALV flow and subsequent EVP congestion, contributing to her chronic headaches. Axial cross-sectional magnetic resonance image demonstrating severe compression of the left common iliac vein (LCIV) (blue arrow) between the right common iliac artery (RCIA) (red arrow) anteriorly and the spine posteriorly. The anteroposterior diameter of the LCIV is narrowed by more than 50% at the compression point when compared with the adjacent venous segment. Catheter-based venography and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) were subsequently performed to assess venous haemodynamics in more detail. A pressure gradient of 2 mmHg was measured across the stenotic segment of the LCIV to the inferior vena cava (IVC). IVUS demonstrated severe narrowing of the LCIV (Figure 2), and venography confirmed retrograde flow through the ALV due to severe LCIV compression (Figure 3). To relieve the EVP congestion hypothesized to be contributing to the patient’s headache, plug embolization of the ALV was performed (Figure 4). The objective of this intervention was to stop the abnormal retrograde venous reflux into the EVP (Figure 5), thus reducing the EVP congestion that may be aggravating her headaches. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) demonstrates severe LCIV compression (yellow arrow) by the overlying RCIA (white arrow). Abbreviation: LCIV = left common iliac vein; RCIA = right common iliac artery. Lateral venography showing severe LCIV compression (yellow arrow) and retrograde ascending lumbar vein flow (blue arrow) with robust epidural venous plexus congestion (red arrow). There is a paucity of contrast in the LCIV subjacent at the site of maximal compression. This was a power injection obtained in the supine position with a pigtail catheter in the left external iliac vein at 6 mL/second for a total volume of 18 mL. Imaging was performed in the lateral projection. Abbreviation: LCIV = left common iliac vein. Ascending lumbar vein embolization with plug insertion. This was a power injection obtained in the supine position with a pigtail catheter in the left external iliac vein at 6 mL/second for a total volume of 18 mL. Imaging was performed in the lateral projection. Post-embolization image showing no flow into the ascending lumbar vein and no EVP congestion. This was a power injection obtained in the supine position with a pigtail catheter in the left external iliac vein at 6 mL/second for a total volume of 18 mL. Imaging was performed in the lateral projection. Abbreviation: EVP = epidural venous plexus. Following ALV embolization, the patient experienced significant improvement in her headache symptoms. At her 22-month follow-up, she reported an 80% reduction in headache severity. Her headaches, previously rated between VAS score 6 and 8, were now 0 on most days, with occasional flare-ups reaching only 3/10 about once per week. She now manages these minor episodes with acetazolamide as needed and no longer requires her previous schedule of headache medications. After the ALV was embolized to relieve the patient’s headaches, attention was turned to her longstanding symptoms of PCS. These included significant pelvic pain and discomfort, which had been present for many years. trMRA demonstrated retrograde flow through the left gonadal vein, caused by compression of the LRV. This finding explained the source of the pelvic venous congestion (Supplementary S5). To ensure that embolization of the gonadal vein would be safe, a temporary balloon occlusion test was done using a Fogarty balloon. This confirmed no significant rise in pressure from the LRV to the IVC, confirming that embolization could be safely performed. The patient then underwent left gonadal vein and pelvic variceal embolization using plugs and sodium tetradecyl sulphate (Supplementary S6), which directly addressed the source of her PCS-related symptoms. At her 22-month follow-up, the patient reported that she no longer experienced pelvic pain or pelvic discomfort. Follow-up imaging also showed no further evidence of pelvic venous congestion (Supplementary S7).