A 70-year-old Caucasian male with a history of ankylosing spondylitis, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and prior cervical spinal fusion (C4-C6) presented to the hospital as an outside transfer on day 0. He presented with bilateral lower extremity weakness four days prior (day four). Significant home medications included adalimumab 40 mg biweekly, prednisone 10 mg daily, and fluticasone-salmeterol twice daily. He had recently been hospitalized for sepsis secondary to Legionella pneumophila pneumonia and treated with a seven-day course of azithromycin from days -14 to -6. From days -4 to 0, the patient developed bilateral lower extremity weakness and worsening back pain. He had previously ambulated with a walker but was now wheelchair-bound. His back pain was diffuse, constant, and worse with lying down. He also reported paresthesia, pain, and numbness in his fingers bilaterally. He denied bowel or bladder dysfunction or lower extremity paresthesias. On arrival, he was hypertensive (176/122 mmHg), tachycardic (105 bpm), and afebrile (36.3°C). Due to concerns for spinal cord pathology, cervical and thoracolumbar spine MRI were performed. These images showed severe anterior cord compression at the lower cervical level (Figure 1), a bulging disc affecting the L5 nerve root, and mild-to-moderate foraminal narrowing from L3 to S1 consistent with chronic degenerative and inflammatory changes (Figure 2). At this time, spinal stenosis and cord compression were the leading differential diagnoses. Neurosurgery was consulted, and the patient was started on dexamethasone. The following day (day one), the patient’s clinical status remained unchanged. Neurosurgery reviewed the imaging and determined that no surgical intervention was warranted, recommending continued steroid therapy. On day two, the patient began to develop dysarthria, prompting a stat non-contrast head CT to evaluate for stroke. Imaging revealed a prominent basilar tip (~6 mm in diameter), which was concerning for a possible aneurysm. Given the wide range of symptoms that a basilar tip aneurysm can present with, this was considered a potential explanation for the patient’s symptoms. However, a follow-up CT angiography of the head and neck definitively ruled out an aneurysm. The patient’s clinical presentation worsened over days three to four. He developed left-sided ptosis, facial droop, ophthalmoplegia, burning sensations in the legs, worsening dysarthria, and bilateral upper extremity weakness. At that time, he showed no improvement on steroids. With stroke, aneurysm, and structural causes being ruled out, the clinical picture was now suggestive of an autoimmune demyelinating polyneuropathy. Thus, an autoimmune panel was sent, and a lumbar puncture was performed. The autoimmune panel showed an isolated increase in ANA, consistent with his ankylosing spondylitis. The lumbar puncture was significant for albuminocytologic dissociation (CSF protein = 171 mg/dL), consistent with GBS. The progressive clinical presentation following a respiratory infection, along with the CSF studies, confirmed the diagnosis of MFS. The neurological exam prior to treatment for MFS showed left-sided ptosis, facial droop, ophthalmoplegia, dysarthria, diffuse hyporeflexia, and varying degrees of strength loss: 5/5 in shoulder abduction/adduction; 4/5 in biceps flexion, triceps extension, plantarflexion, and dorsiflexion; 3/5 in finger extension/flexion, interossei activation, hip flexion/extension, and knee flexion/extension (Table 1). Plantar responses were flexor bilaterally. On day five, the patient was started on intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) at 0.4 g/kg/day for five days. From days six to 16, serial neurological examinations demonstrated gradual improvement. Dysarthria resolved, ptosis and ophthalmoplegia resolved, and distal paresthesias were no longer present. Motor strength also improved, with shoulder and elbow movements returning to 5/5 bilaterally, finger movements improving from 3/5 to 4/5, and hip and knee strength increasing from 3/5 to 4/5 (Table 1). He progressed from wheelchair dependence to ambulating short distances with a walker. The patient was transferred to an inpatient rehabilitation facility, where he regained independence with transfers and advanced to longer distance ambulation. By day 56, neurological examination showed return to his pre-hospitalization baseline: cranial nerve function was intact, deep tendon reflexes were present, finger strength had improved to 5/5 bilaterally, and lower extremity strength remained 4/5 bilaterally, consistent with his chronic baseline due to prior cervical spine disease. He ambulated safely with the use of his walker (Table 1).