A 19-year-old man not known to have any medical illness presented to our spine clinic complaining of a progressive spine deformity and lower limb contractures that developed over a 9-year period. Deformity was associated with a dull aching low back pain with radicular pain radiating to the right lower limb. The patient denied any history of trauma or constitutional symptoms. On examination, the patient had an apparent kyphoscoliosis deformity, pelvic obliquity, negative sagittal balance, flexed neck, and low gaze. In addition, the patient had tightness in the hamstring and Achilles tendons, resulting in a crouched gait. There was notable flexibility in the spine deformity as it corrects on the supine position and exaggerates while sitting or lying down. Neurologically, the patient had bilateral fixed flexion contractures of the knee, intact power and sensation, and the absence of any upper motor neuron signs. The paient underwent evauation at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. He was reviewed by 2 neurologists, and he was evaluated by brain computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), nerve conduction study, and electromyography, which excluded neurological pathology. Preoperative radiographs revealed a kyphoscoliosis deformity with a thoracic coronal major curve of 51° and a lumbar coronal major curve of 54° (Fig. 1). The spinopelvic parameters are further detailed in Tables I and 2. CT scan revealed an incidental finding of right lamina sclerotic lesion measuring 16 × 11 mm, with extension into the spinal canal resulting in right-sided L3-4 lumbar canal stenosis, with evidence of right-sided L3-L4 facet ankylosis corresponding to a unilateral facet fusion in the sclerotic area. The tumor was suggestive of either an osteoblastoma or osteoid osteoma (Figs. 1 and 2). After full evaluation, including MRI, a decision was taken to surgically excise the osteoid osteoma with short, instrumented fusion of L3-4. Figs. 1-A and 1-B Preoperative standing anteroposterior and lateral thoracolumbar radiograph of the spine of a 19-year-old patient showing deformity and alignment at presentation. Figs. 1-C and 1-D Axial CT scans of the lumbar spine with a 3D demonstration of the deformity and location of the lesion. CT = computed tomography. Comparison of the Spinopelvic Parameters of the Patient Preoperatively and 2 Years After the Surgery SVA = sagittal vertical axis. Comparison of the Thoracic and Lumbar Coronal Angles of the Patient Preoperatively and at 2 Years After the Surgery MRI of the spine reveals the lesion location in right L4 lamina with extension into the spinal canal, measuring 16 × 11 mm. MRI = magnetic resonance imaging. The patient was positioned prone on the Jackson table, with a classical posterior approach. Subperiosteal dissection and exposure of the L3-L4 level were performed. It was noticed that over right lamina where the lesion was located, there was an area of sclerosis and autofusion identified reaching up to the L3-4 facet. Then, pedicle screws of an appropriate size and length were inserted bilaterally at L3 and L4. Subsequently, partial laminectomy of L3 and L4 where the lesion was located was performed. Then, it was followed by a full facetectomy and decompression of lateral recess, exposing the dura, with excision of the lesion. The sclerotic shell superficial to the lesion was removed with a burr, and the lesion was excised as 1 piece with a curette. The deep part of the shell of the lesion was completely excised using the burr. After decompression, a posterolateral fusion with bone graft substitute was performed, rods were placed, and hemostasis was assured. The wound was closed in layers over a drain. The histopathology showed woven bone with an osteoblast rim and no increased vascularity. The pathologist confirmed the diagnosis of osteoid osteoma (Fig. 3). Histological analysis of the resected tumor using HE shows a bone forming lesion composed of woven bone with osteoblastic rimming, fibrovascular stroma, and scattered multinucleated giant cells without increased vascularity. HE = hematoxylin and eosin. The patient was followed at 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months postoperatively. He started physical therapy with a structural program including lower limb stretching to improve his contractures. The deformity gradually improved throughout the 2-year follow-up. Patient coronal and sagittal parameters improved. The thoracic and lumbar coronal angles have improved to 35° and 24°, respectively (Table II). During the third-month follow-up, the patient exhibited a full range of motion bilaterally, moderate release of the stiffness in his hamstrings, and Achilles tendons. In addition, he exhibited improvement of his gait, gaze, head drop, pelvic obliquity, and both sagittal and coronal deformities. At the last follow-up, the patient exhibited a significant improvement in the deformity, good activation of postural muscles, a normal gait without limping, and a significant improvement of the coronal angles on imaging (Figs. 4 and 5). Figs. 4-A and 4-B Immediate postoperative standing thoracolumbar radiograph, showing improvement in alignment and deformity. Figs. 4-C and 4-D Standing radiograph at the 3-month follow-up. Figs. 5-A and 5-B Postoperative standing thoracolumbar radiograph at 6 months. Figs. 5-C and 5-D At the 2-year follow-up interval, with resolution of deformity and balanced sagittal alignment.