This report describes the experience with three patients (ages 22–45) presenting with progressive neurological deficits and back pain. None of the patients had a prior tuberculosis (TB) history. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed multifocal, non-contiguous spinal lesions involving the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar segments, showing vertebral destruction and cord compression. All patients underwent aggressive surgical intervention, including multilevel decompression, debridement, and long-segment stabilisation. The diagnosis of spinal TB was confirmed by histopathology and cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test. Following surgery and supervised anti-tubercular therapy, all patients demonstrated neurological recovery. A 24-year-old male presented with persistent upper back pain for 3 months, constitutional symptoms (fever, loss of weight and appetite) for 1 month, progressive gait instability (bedridden for 1 week), and bladder involvement (48 h). He was already initiated on 1st line ATT (elsewhere) without histopathological confirmation. On examination, there was a palpable, tender gibbus at T6-T8, with frank upper motor neuron (UMN)-type neurological involvement (Frenkel-C). On imaging (plain radiographs, computed tomography [CT], magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), a potential diagnosis of MSTB disease (non-contiguous; significant T7-T8 vertebral collapse, T11-T12 disease, left L2 disease, L5-S1 left pedicle/vertebral disease, significant epidural collection/granulation tissue at T7-T8 and T10-T12) was made (although aggressive neoplastic lesions like lymphoma were also considered; Fig. 1a-k). (a and b) Case 1 – Radiological findings pre-operative X-rays: Antero-posterior (AP) and lateral views of thoracolumbar spine showing increased haziness and collapse of T7, T8 vertebrae, (c) Lateral view of lumbar spine showing lytic lesions in the vertebral bodies of T11, T12, L2, (d and e) Mid-sagittal computed tomography (CT) sections showing complete collapse of T7, T8 vertebrae with focal kyphosis around 20°, (f and g) Para-sagittal CT sections showing multi-level lytic lesions at T7, T8, T11, T12, L2, L5, (h) mid-sagittal sequence of contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CE-MRI) image showing hyperintense signals in pre-vertebral and epidural regions suspicious for granulation tissue with T7 collapse and T11, T12, L2 hyperintense areas with preserved vertebral height, (i) axial section of CE-MRI showing abscess within left vertebral body and pedicle of sacrum, (j) coronal section of CE-MRI showing bilateral para-vertebral abscess and granulation tissues at T7-8 level, (k) sagittal section of CE-MRI showing complete destruction of T7-T8 vertebrae with paravertebral abscess at T12 level, (l and m) intra-operative images showing decompression of the thecal sac, anterior cage reconstruction and posterior instrumentation, (n and o) immediate post-operative AP and lateral radiographs showing long-segment posterior instrumentation and cage construct, (p and q) follow-up radiographs at 3 months showing good implant position and healing, (r and s) follow-up radiographs at 12 months showing good bony fusion at T7,T8 levels and satisfactory healing. In view of worsening neurodeficit, the decision to go ahead with immediate surgical intervention (without prior biopsy) was made. The surgical steps included T4-L3 posterior instrumented fusion, laminectomy between T7 and T12, T7/T8 corpectomies, and debridement of unhealthy granulation tissues. L5-S1 lesion was managed conservatively at this point, with a potential plan of distal extension (in case of additional deterioration; Fig. 1l and m). The histopathological examination (HPE) report was suggestive of tubercular infection (with granuloma). Gene Expert and tubercular culture were negative. He was started on ATT (1st line) based on the HPE and clinico-radiological presentation. At 6 weeks, barring some residual UMN findings, his neurological status had almost completely recovered. He responded well to ATT clinically, and his inflammatory markers also gradually improved. At 9 months, MRI revealed complete resolution of all lesions. ATT was discontinued at the end of 10 months (Fig. 1n-s). Patient is clinically stable with 18 months of follow-up. A 43-year-old lady presented with worsening pain over the cervicothoracic region (6 months) and recent-onset weight loss of 7 kg. She was treated by a non-allopathic practitioner for 3 months. Her X-ray revealed a semi-segmented hemivertebra (mixed formation-segmentation defect) at T6-T7. There was significant tenderness at the upper thoracic and thoracolumbar levels. Neurological examination was normal. Imaging studies (X-rays, CT and MRI) suggested a potential diagnosis of MSTB with non-contiguous involvement (T3-T4 spondylodiscitis [with partial destruction of right T4], T9-T10 spondylodiscitis [with T10 left-sided vertebral destruction], large granulation tissue on right and left paravertebral regions at T3-T4 and T10, respectively; and compressive epidural granulation tissue at both levels; Fig. 2a-k). CT-guided biopsy revealed a diagnosis of tubercular granuloma. (a) Case 2 – radiological findings: Antero-posterior (AP) view of plain thoracolumbar radiograph showing right T6 hemivertebra with T6-T7 mixed formation-segmentation vertebral anomaly, (b) mid-sagittal section of computed tomography (CT) image showing end-plate irregularities at T3-T4 and T9-T10 levels (c and d) CT images – coronal and 3-D reconstruction sequences showing T6-T7 semi-segmented hemi-vertebrae (mixed formation-segmentation vertebral anomaly), (e and f) Sagittal sections-contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CE-MRI) showing significant evidence of T3-T4 and T9-T10 spondylodiscitis with large granulation tissue on para-vertebral and pre-vertebral regions, (g and h) axial sections of CE-MRI showing partial destruction of right T4 vertebral body with large granulation tissue, left-sided vertebral destruction at T10 (with abscess/granulation tissue) and compressive epidural granulation tissue at both levels, (i) left para-sagittal section – short tau inversion recovery sequence of MRI showing extensive hyperintensity (S/O granulation tissue) at T9-T10 level, (j) mid-sagittal section of T2WI-MRI showing T3-T4, T9-T10 spondylodiscitis and pre-vertebral granulation tissue/abscess, (k) coronal section of CE-MRI showing para-vertebral granulation tissue at T3-T4 and T9-T10 levels, (l and m) immediate post-operative images showing C6-T12 posterior instrumented stabilisation, laminectomy from T2-T5 and T8-T11 levels, partial corpectomy of T4,T10 and reconstruction using iliac crest bone grafting, (n and o) follow-up plain radiographs-AP and lateral views at 6 months showing good implant position and satisfactory healing. In view of disease severity, surgical debridement with cord decompression and long-segment instrumented fusion was planned. Considering intervening anomalous vertebrae at T6-7, the patient underwent C6-T12 posterior instrumented stabilisation, laminectomy from T2-T5 and T8-T11, circumferential decompression at T3-T4 and T9-T10 with partial corpectomy of T4 and T10, debridement of unhealthy granulation tissues, reconstruction at corpectomy levels with iliac crest bone graft, followed by posterior fusion with bone graft (at C6-T12; Fig. 2l-o). Tissue HPE, molecular tests and TB culture revealed the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB). Surgery was followed by 1st-line ATT. She has completed 10 months of therapy, demonstrated clinical and radiological healing, and now remains stable with 16 months of follow-up. Another similar multilevel (cervical and thoracic) TB (biopsy-proven) in a 74-year-old male (with multiple comorbidities – diabetes, coronary artery disease and renal disease) is presented in Fig. 3. He had severe myelopathy and neurodeficit at presentation (Frenkel-C). The patient had a successful recovery after adequate chemotherapy for 11 months and was clinically stable with 14 months of follow-up. (a and b) Case 3 – radiological findings: Para-sagittal and coronal computed tomography (CT) images (of whole spine) showing destruction at C4-C5 and T5-T6 vertebral levels (evidence of previous surgery at L4-L5 level with interbody metallic cage), (c) mid-sagittal section of whole spine T2WI-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showing large epidural abscess at C4-C5 and T5-T6 levels with severe compression over spinal cord, (d and e) mid-sagittal CT sections showing destruction at C4-C5 and T5-T6 levels, suggestive of possible spondylodiscitis, (f and g) axial sections of T2WI-MRI showing large epidural abscesses with severe compression over spinal cord at C4-C5 and T5-T6 levels, (h) mid-sagittal sections of CE-MRI showing pre-/para-vertebral and large epidural abscess at C4-C5 and T5-T6 levels, (i) mid-coronal sections of short tau inversion recovery sequence on MRI showing large paravertebral abscess/granulation tissue at T5-T6 level, (j and k) axial sections of CT imaging showing severe bone destruction of T5 and C5 vertebral bodies, (l and m) stage 1: Post-operative AP and lateral radiographs showing C5 corpectomy with spinal decompression and C4-C5 fusion with Harm’s cage-plate construct, (n-q) stage 2: Post-operative radiographs showing the final constructs at the cervical and thoracic levels (360° fusion constructs).