A 25-year-old immunocompetent female with a BMI of 51.52 (historically and upon presentation), microcytic anemia, and vertigo presented to the emergency department (ED) with a chief complaint of 10/10 generalized headache. Other associated symptoms included generalized weakness, nausea, and fatigue. A week prior to presentation, she was having chest pain that radiated to her back and neck. She noticed a fever peaking at 102°F three days prior to arrival. In the ED, she described the headache as dull and achy, and it worsened when lying flat or walking. On presentation, she denied diarrhea, shortness of breath, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, lower extremity edema, appetite changes, confusion, brain fog, or recent travel. She endorsed mild neck stiffness and normal oral intake of both solid and liquid. Of note, she met sepsis criteria with a temperature of 102.5°F and was tachycardic with a heart rate of 110 beats per minute. She was tachypneic with a respiratory rate of 23 breaths per minute. The physical examination revealed mild neck stiffness, pain with flexion, and negative Kernig and Brudzinski signs. Her laboratory results in the ED were notable for a normal lactate level, a negative comprehensive viral panel, and a negative urinalysis. Her chest X-ray (CXR) showed central vascular congestion, and her CT head and CT abdomen and pelvis were negative for acute processes. A lumbar puncture (LP) was attempted but was unable to be completed due to the patient's body habitus, so an interventional radiology-guided LP was ordered along with an echocardiogram (ECHO). She was admitted for sepsis of unknown origin. Once admitted, the infectious disease (ID) service was consulted, and a variety of tests were sent out, including HIV, meningitis viral panel, herpes simplex virus (HSV), John Cunningham (JC) virus, Cytomegalovirus (CMV)/Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and syphilis, all of which were negative. A lumbar puncture was successfully completed and demonstrated normal cell counts with an opening pressure of 29 cmH2O (Table 1). She was found to have a positive cryptococcal blood antigen test with negative titers, due to high levels of antibody (Table 2). The repeat to confirm was also positive. Her IgA, IgG, and IgM immunoglobulins were within normal limits. Of note, her typhus fever antigen tests were also found to be positive, with IgG positive at 1:128 and IgM levels >1:1024 (Table 3). Her antibodies also demonstrated IgG at 1:64 and IgM >1:256. An MRI of the brain was completed on the patient, and it was negative, along with her ECHO. As the treatment progressed, the regimen included vancomycin 1250 mg IV q8h, ceftriaxone 2 g IV, fluconazole 400 mg daily, and dexamethasone 10 mg IV for four days; her symptoms slowly improved. She still occasionally complained of a waxing and waning headache along with mild nausea. She was discharged with six months of fluconazole 400 mg daily and seven days of doxycycline for the positive typhus serologies. During her stay, and after an extensive workup, we were unable to identify risk factors for her acquiring this disease. The only potential source identified was her father's mention that they own multiple chickens in their backyard. The patient was discharged with fluconazole 400 mg once daily for six months and was recommended to have close outpatient follow-up. Currently, we are unable to obtain outpatient medical records to determine whether she followed up as recommended.