A 62-year-old Caucasian male with uncontrolled insulin-dependent diabetes, neuropathy, and chronic alcohol use presented with generalized weakness and a history of diabetic foot wound, multiple falls, raising suspicion for necrotizing infection. He reported neck pain radiating to both upper extremities with associated paresthesias, as well as chronic lower back pain radiating to the lower extremities. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine demonstrated discitis at C4–5 and C5–6. Imaging further revealed an enhancing anterior epidural phlegmon extending from C3–4 to C5–6, with central canal narrowing at C4–5 (Fig. 1a and b). Additional findings included osteomyelitis of the L3–4 and L4–5 vertebral bodies, bilateral iliopsoas muscle abscesses, and abscesses posterior to the L5 and S3 vertebral bodies (Fig. 2a and b). The surgical plan consisted of anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. The procedures performed included C4–5 and C5–6 anterior cervical discectomy with spinal cord decompression and evacuation of epidural abscess, C4–5 and C5–6 anterior interbody arthrodesis, and insertion of polyetheretherketone (PEEK) interbody biomechanical cages. An anterior cervical carbon fiber plate and screws (Icotec) were placed from C4 to C6. (a) MRI cervical sagittal of T1 vertebrae with gadolinium contrast depicting osteomyelitis/discitis with epidural abscess. (b) MRI cervical axial T1 image with gadolinium contrast C4–5 demonstrating epidural abscess and cord compression. (a) MRI sagittal lumbar T1 with gadolinium contrast showing osteodiscitis at L3–4 and L4–5 vertebrae with epidural abscess. (b) Axial lumbar MRI T1 with gadolinium contrast showing epidural abscess with iliopsoas and paraspinal abscesses. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) with a Miami-J collar in place. Intraoperative cultures were positive for Staphylococcus, prompting initiation of antibiotic therapy. Post-operative computed tomography (CT) imaging demonstrated preserved alignment at C4-C5 and C5-C6. The patient exhibited significant improvement in knee flexion, knee extension, and ankle flexion following surgery. He subsequently underwent lumbar lateral interbody fusion at L3–4 and L4–5, followed by lumbar L4–5 hemilaminectomy, L5-S1 laminectomy, L2-S1 posterior instrumentation with pedicle screws and rods, and arthrodeses at L2–L3, L3-L4, L4-L5, and L5-S1 (Figs 3–6). Given the history of multiple spinal osteomyelitis and epidural abscesses, a fluid collection developed from L1-L2 through S1, raising concern for abscess formation. Incision and debridement of the lumbar wound were performed, and a superficial wound vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) was applied. Wound cultures grew Serratia marcescens, Proteus vulgaris, and Gram-negative rods. The patient was initially started on metronidazole and cefepime empirically; following culture results, treatment was changed to daptomycin and ertapenem for a total of 6 weeks. Postoperative sagittal cervical CT scan image sagittal view showing a carbon fiber plate with screws. Postoperative CT scan lumbar axial view showing a carbon fiber screw with no visible scatter. Postoperative sagittal X-ray demonstrating a carbon fiber plate and screws (lateral view). Postoperative A-P X-ray showing carbon fiber plate and screws. (AP view).