A woman in her 60s with a history of liver cirrhosis due to NASH presented to the emergency room with a chief complaint of sudden nausea and dark-red vomiting. Contrast-enhanced CT revealed large gastric varices but no active bleeding. The gastric varices were confirmed to have been supplied through the posterior gastric vein, draining into the inferior phrenic vein (Fig. 1A and 1B). Abnormal laboratory test results on admission were as follows: albumin, 3.5 g/DL (normal range, 4.1-5.1 g/dL); hemoglobin, 10.5 g/dL (normal range, 11.6-14.8 g/dL); platelet count, 8.4 × 103/μl (normal range, 15.8-34.8 × 103/mcL); prothrombin time, 13.3 s (normal range, 10.0-13.0 s); and activated partial thromboplastin clotting time (APTT), 23.7 s (normal range, 25.0-40.0). Her hepatic impairment status was Child-Pugh class A (mild hepatic impairment). Emergency endoscopy revealed varicose veins with white plugs, indicating bleeding but no active bleeding. Therefore, endoscopic sclerotherapy was performed the following day. A mixture of 1 ml of n-BCA (Histoacryl; B. Braun, Melsungen, Germany) and 0.5 cc Lipiodol (Lipiodol 480 injection; Guerbet Japan, Tokyo, Japan) was injected into the gastric varices (Fig. 2A). However, after the catheter was removed, bleeding could not be controlled with endoscopic manipulation (Fig. 2B), and cessation was achieved by placing an S-B tube (All Silicone Sengstaken-Blakemore Tube; Create Medic Co., Yokohama, Japan). Based on the CT findings, gastric varices with residual blood flow were determined to be treatable with B-RTO, and B-RTO was performed 4 days after onset. An 8Fr-guiding catheter (BRTO-ASA, Medikit, Tokyo, Japan) was introduced into the left adrenal vein via the right femoral vein under local anesthesia. Subsequently, a 6Fr balloon catheter (Selecon MP Catheter 2, Terumo Clinical Supply Co. Ltd., Gifu, Japan) was advanced peripherally into the left inferior phrenic vein via the 8Fr-guiding catheter. Retrograde venography during balloon occlusion of the left inferior phrenic vein with manual injection revealed gastric varices, afferent veins, and paravertebral collateral veins (Fig. 3A). To prevent leakage into the collateral veins, the balloon catheter was advanced distally, the balloon was reinflated, and venography was repeated with manual injection, which revealed only the gastric varices and their afferents (Fig. 3B). At this site, where the collateral veins had disappeared, 8 mL of 5% ethanolamine oleate with iopamidol (EOI) (a mixture of 10% ethanolamine oleate [Oldamin, ASKA Pharmaceutical, Osaka, Japan] an equal amount of iopamidol [Iopamiron 300, Bayer, Osaka, Japan]) was injected. Prior to the EOI injection, the patient complained of left chest pain, but there were no electrocardiogram abnormalities. Immediately after the EOI was injected, her condition was checked, and she complained of back pain, which was not present before the EOI injection, but not epigastric pain. The balloon remained inflated, and after confirmation that blood flow had disappeared on venography 4 h later, the balloon was deflated, and the catheter was removed. Subsequently, the patient developed severe back pain and bilateral thigh pain. CT was performed the following day to identify the cause of the pain and showed embolization of the varicose veins. However, a high-density area was found around the spinal cord in the thoracolumbar spinal canal (Fig. 4A and 4B), which was not recognized in the prior CT on admission (Fig. 4C). Suspecting hemorrhage within the dural sac, a lumbar MRI was subsequently performed. In T1- and T2-weighted sagittal images, the water signal in the cerebrospinal fluid space was obscured, and the contrast between the spinal cord and cerebrospinal fluid was decreased, indicating a subarachnoid hemorrhage when combined with the CT findings (Fig. 5A and 5B). T2-weighted axial images showed a crescent-shaped low signal in the left posterior part of the spinal cord within the dural sac, which was believed to be a subdural hematoma (Fig. 5C), due to which the spinal cord had deviated to the right. Although the pain was severe in the lower back, buttocks, and thighs, there was no motor paralysis; therefore, pain control and conservative treatment were performed. In the T1-weighted MRI image taken 1 week after B-RTO, the subdural hematoma had an increased signal and could be recognized as a clear, high-intensity area on the T1-weighted images (Fig. 6A and 6B). Although the patient's symptoms disappeared after 1 month, she was discharged from the hospital without any sequelae. Contrast-enhanced CT at ER. A: Early phase of contrast-enhanced CT revealed large varices protruding into the gastric lumen (white arrow). There was no contrast extravasation suggestive of active bleeding. B: In 3D volume rendering images, gastric varices (white arrow) were found to receive blood from the posterior gastric vein (double white arrow) and drain to the inferior phrenic vein (arrowhead). Emergency endoscopy. A: Gastric fundal varices with white plugs (white arrows) in retroflex view were observed. A catheter is inserted to inject NBCA. B: After injection, bleeding that could not be controlled with an endoscope appeared from the puncture site. B-RTO. A: Retrograde venography under balloon occlusion of the left inferior phrenic vein demonstrated the gastric varices (white arrow) and its afferent vein from the posterior gastric vein (double white arrows). An anastomosis to the paravertebral vein (arrowheads) can be seen just above the cranial side of the inflated balloon. B: The balloon was inflated distal to the anastomosis to the paravertebral vein, and the EOI was injected from this location, where only the gastric varices were visualized. A: Noncontrast CT the day after B-RTO. In the axial image of the 12th thoracic vertebra (Th12) level, the spinal cord was surrounded by high density, which suggests subarachnoid hemorrhage (black arrows). Lipiodol accumulation by EIS was observed in the gastric varices (white arrow). B: Noncontrast CT the day after B-RTO. At the second lumbar vertebra (L2) level, the outline of the dural sac is clearly delineated (white arrow), and the lumen of the dural sac is high density, which suggests subarachnoid hemorrhage. C: Noncontrast CT at ER. In the axial image of the 12th thoracic vertebra (Th12) level, the attenuation within the spinal canal is homogeneous, and it is difficult to distinguish between the spinal cord and cerebrospinal fluid. MRI performed the day after B-RTO. A: In T2-weighted sagittal image, the CSF signal within the dural sac is heterogeneous. Incidental lumbar spinal canal stenosis is noted at the lower lumbar level. B: In T1-weighted sagittal image, the CSF signal dorsally increases, with poor contrast with the spinal cord. C: T2-weighted axial image shows a crescent-shaped low-signal subdural hematoma in the dural sac with spinal cord deviation (white arrow). MRI performed 1 week after B-RTO. A: T1-weighted sagittal image shows subdural hematoma (arrowheads) as high-intensity area along inner edge of dural sac. B: T1-weighted axial image shows subdural hematoma as crescent high intensity (white arrow).