A 39-year-old man went to the hospital for dizziness, headache, tinnitus, and hearing loss in October 2018 and was hospitalized for treatment. No abnormalities were found in cranial transcerebral CT, neck vascular ultrasound, and transcranial Doppler examinations. In January 2019, his symptoms continued to worsen, and he developed chest tightness, dyspnea, progressive limb weakness, and bowel and bladder dysfunction. On May 13, 2019, he underwent functional MRI of his head and entire spinal cord, which showed multiple abnormal uniformly enhanced signal shadows in the brain parenchyma, part of the meninges and spinal cord, suggesting the possibility of neurofibroma (Figure 1). During this period, he also underwent lumbar puncture, and the cerebrospinal fluid was collected and sent for cytological examination, which revealed a large number of suspicious atypical cells (Figure 2). He further underwent PET/CT examination, and the results showed multiple hypermetabolic lesions in the brain and spinal canal (Figure 3), and the possibility of lymphoma was considered. He subsequently underwent spinal cord biopsy, and the histopathological results showed inflammatory lesions, suggesting neurological sarcoidosis. He then received 7 days of high-dose hormone shock therapy. Brain magnetic resonance enhancement image indicated an abnormalenhancement signal in the cervical spinal cord. Cerebrospinal fluid cytology: A large number of abnormal cells were visible (MGG×1000). PET/CT: Multiple abnormally high metabolic signals were detected in the spinal cord. Because he felt that his clinical symptoms were relieved, he subsequently underwent a re-examination of the brain MRI enhanced scan, but the results showed that the intracranial lesions had progressed significantly compared with before, and the enhancement was diffuse meningeal type. Considering that the possibility of tuberculous meningoencephalitis could not be ruled out, he was transferred to the Department of Neurology of our hospital on June 15, 2019. While hospitalized he underwent another lumbar puncture. The cerebrospinal fluid was collected for testing of tuberculosis infection, including acid-fast staining, tuberculosis DNA testing, XPERT gene testing, and tuberculosis culture. None of these tests detected Mycobacterium tuberculosis, but the cerebrospinal fluid cytology still showed a large number of atypical cells (Figure 4). We conducted a routine examination of all his systemic organs again, and no significant abnormal lesions were found. Meanwhile, he underwent bone marrow aspiration, and the bone marrow morphology analysis indicated hypercellularity with active proliferation of nucleated cells. All stages of the granulocytic series were observed, predominantly myelocytes and metamyelocytes, with occasional giant metamyelocytes. The erythroid series was mainly composed of intermediate and late-stage normoblasts, and binucleated early erythroblasts were visible. Mature red blood cells showed no significant changes in size or morphology. Megakaryocytes numbered 119, and platelet clusters were readily observed. His cerebrospinal fluid was sent for flow cytometric analysis, which revealed a small number of lymphocytes among the nucleated cells in the cerebrospinal fluid, with a decreased CD4/CD8 ratio (0.64) in T cells. B cells showed missing surface K/L chain expression. Monocytes were frequently seen, with absent surface HLA-DR expression, and the proportion of granulocytes was increased. Based on all the aforementioned findings, we believe he is suffering from a rare tumor originating from the central nervous system. We conducted thorough discussions with the patient and his family regarding the disease condition. Both the patient and his family were unable to accept systemic chemotherapy but agreed to trial intrathecal chemotherapy (consisting of intrathecal injections of 10 mg methotrexate three times per week). Following this treatment, his clinical symptoms gradually improved. A follow-up contrast-enhanced cranial MRI also showed a marked reduction in the size of the enhancing nodular lesions within the spinal cord (Figures 5a, b). Cerebrospinal fluid cytology: A large number of heterotypic cells were observed. The cell membrane had irregular edges, most of the nuclei were petal-like, nucleoli were visible, and the cytoplasm appeared blue. (A) Cerebral nuclear magnetic resonance enhancement before intrathecalchemotherapy revealed multiple abnormal enhancement signals in the cervical spinalcord. (B) After intrathecal chemotherapy, the abnormal enhancement signal at this sitewas slightly smaller than before. On July 20, 2019, he continued treatment at another hospital, during which intrathecal chemotherapy was not resumed. A follow-up contrast-enhanced cranial MRI revealed a significant enlargement of the intracranial lesions and increased meningeal enhancement compared to previous findings (Figure 6). He subsequently developed cerebral herniation and urgently underwent decompressive craniectomy and brain tissue biopsy (Figure 7). Immunohistochemical analysis of the biopsy tissue showed positivity for Bcl-2(+), scattered positivity for Bcl-6(+), focal positivity for CD10(+), negativity for CD17 (–), CD163(-), CD20(-), CD3(-), scattered positivity for CD30(+), negativity for CD34(-), positivity for CD68(+), negativity for CD7(-), positivity for CD99(+), negativity for CKpan(-), a Ki-67 index of 95%, negativity for LCA(-), negativity for MUM-1(-), negativity for PAX5(-), negativity for TdT(-), and scattered positivity for Vimentin(+). Based on the pathological morphology and immunophenotype, the findings were consistent with a malignant tumor of lymphohematopoietic origin, suggestive of myeloid sarcoma (Figure 8). Unfortunately, the patient passed away on September 16, 2019, after receiving only one cycle of high-dose cytarabine chemotherapy. Re-examination of craniocerebral nuclear magnetic resonance enhancement indicated a marked increase in intracranial lesions. (A) represents the lesion in the occipital lobe, while (B) represents the lesion in the temporal lobe. (A) Intracranial lesion spreading and cerebral hernia were detected. (B) Imagetaken after decompression of the skull flap. Histopathology shows: diffuse proliferation of primitive cells, relatively consistent cell size, high nuclear-cytoplasmic ratio, visible small nucleoli, easily visible mitotic figures, and nuclear debris.