A 73-year-old female presents to our practice with persistent low-back pain, bilateral radiating pain to her lower extremities (with predominance of the left over the right side), and neurogenic claudication with progressively decreasing walking distance of <200 m. Conservative treatment (NSAIDs, pregabalin and Tramadol medication, physiotherapy, epidural injections, nerve blocks, etc) has been unsuccessful. She suffers from osteoporosis and has a surgical history of a laparotomy with bilateral anexectomy 30 years prior, as well as 2 subsequent surgical revisions with an abdominal mesh placement. Furthermore, she referred to the implantation of a sacral neuromodulator due to urinary incontinence 6 years prior. There were no relevant findings in the physical examination. Preoperative standing x-rays and dynamic x-rays in flexion/extension of the lumbar spine showed a lumbar scoliosis and a degenerative spondylolisthesis at L4/L5. Preoperative MRI and CT scans of the lumbar spine show degenerative disk disease with Modic type II changes and a vacuum sign at L3/L4, as well as degenerative disk disease at L5/S1 with a vacuum sign and severe bilateral foraminal and central canal stenosis. Given the mentioned history, clinical symptoms, and radiologic findings, we suggested the following surgical strategy:A lateral anterior-to-psoas (ATP) approach for placing an interbody cage and addressing the pathology at L3/L4 and L4/L5 was chosen due to a favorable vascular corridor at these 2 levels.Given the previous extensive abdominal surgeries, we advised against an anterior retroperitoneal approach/ALIF for addressing L5/S1. In addition, monopolar cautery had to be avoided due to the implanted sacral neuromodulator. Therefore, we suggested that a minimally invasive surgical approach from posterior would, in our opinion, be most appropriate.We suggested a trans-Kambin endoscopic/percutaneous transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) with a large-footprint interbody cage for L5/S1. This should allow for direct addressing of the severe foraminal stenosis with a percutaneous/endoscopic foraminoplasty and indirectly with foraminal distraction by placing a large-footprint expandable interbody cage.Finally, central canal stenosis at L5/S1 would be addressed with an endoscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD). A lateral anterior-to-psoas (ATP) approach for placing an interbody cage and addressing the pathology at L3/L4 and L4/L5 was chosen due to a favorable vascular corridor at these 2 levels. Given the previous extensive abdominal surgeries, we advised against an anterior retroperitoneal approach/ALIF for addressing L5/S1. In addition, monopolar cautery had to be avoided due to the implanted sacral neuromodulator. Therefore, we suggested that a minimally invasive surgical approach from posterior would, in our opinion, be most appropriate. We suggested a trans-Kambin endoscopic/percutaneous transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) with a large-footprint interbody cage for L5/S1. This should allow for direct addressing of the severe foraminal stenosis with a percutaneous/endoscopic foraminoplasty and indirectly with foraminal distraction by placing a large-footprint expandable interbody cage. Finally, central canal stenosis at L5/S1 would be addressed with an endoscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD). After extensively informing the patient on the possible risks and benefits of a surgery, the patient agreed in verbal and written form to undergo lumbar fusion surgery and signed an informed consent. The patient underwent general anesthesia and an ultrasound-guided thoraco-lumbar interfascial plane (TLIP) block.6 Perioperative neuromonitoring with evoked sensory and motor potentials was employed during the whole surgical procedure. Direct probe stimulation was performed with nerve root distance being considered acceptable at signal intensities ≥10 mA. First, the patient was positioned in lateral right decubitus, and an oblique lateral interbody fusion (OLIF) was successfully performed with a left retroperitoneal ATP approach. A lateral interbody cage was placed at L3/L4 and L4/L5, respectively. Then, the patient was positioned in the prone position on a Wilson frame on a radiolucent table, and the patient was positioned in kyphosis of the lumbar spine to maximally distract the foramina at L5/S1. For the trans-Kambin approach, a specially designed dilator with an incorporated universal delivery sheath (Maxfusion system, Hoogland Spine Products GmbH) was placed under fluoroscopic imaging and employed to protect the left exiting nerve root at L5/S1. A foraminoplasty of the left L5/S1 foramen was progressively performed with manual reamers (Maxmorespine, Hoogland Spine Products GmbH). In addition, given the large footprint of the interbody cage to be inserted, foraminoplasty was extended under endoscopic visualization with a high-speed burr. After disk and endplate preparation, a large-footprint (size 39x13x15 mm, 14 degrees lordosis) titanium interbody cage (Vertaconnect, Signus Medizintechnik GmbH) (Fig. 1) packed with demineralized bone matrix (DBM) was percutaneously placed into the disk under fluoroscopic imaging. After the cage placement, positional lumbar kyphosis was reversed and positional lumbar lordosis was maximized. Then, a percutaneous PMMA-augmented posterior screw fixation was performed from L3 to S1 and an endoscopic ULBD was performed at L5/S1. No intraoperative changes in somatosensory and motor potentials were recorded by perioperative neuromonitoring during the whole surgical procedure. Please refer to the video, Supplemental Digital Content 1, http://links.lww.com/CLINSPINE/A406, for a step-by-step description of the complete surgical procedure. In the immediate postoperative follow-up, the patient reported improved pain (Visual Analogic Scale (VAS) back 3 and VAS leg 4) while showing full motor strength of the lower limbs. An immediate postoperative CT scan of the lumbar spine showed correct implant placement in the lumbar spine. The patient was mobilized 6 hours after surgery and was discharged from the hospital within 24 hours of the surgery. The patient did not require opioid medication during the complete postoperative follow-up. After hospital discharge, the patient reported a mild, transitory postoperative radiculitis of the contralateral (right) leg (as the trans-Kambin and the ATP approach were performed from the left side). The postoperative radiculitis was successfully treated with intramuscular dexamethasone 4 mg 1/24 hours for 2 weeks and oral pregabalin 75 mg 1/8 hours until it fully resolved after 5 weeks. Radiologically, postoperative standing x-ray films of the lumbar spine in lateral and anterior/posterior views at 6 weeks postop and after 1 year follow-up showed correctly placed implants (Figs. 2A, B), respectively. A postoperative CT scan of the lumbar spine showed interbody fusion of the implanted cage at L5/S1 (Fig. 2C). Clinical scores at 1 year postoperative follow-up report a favorable outcome with VAS back 2, VAS leg 0, and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) of 10. Postoperative standing x-ray films of the lumbar spine (A) 6 weeks postoperatively and (B) after 1 year postoperative follow-up showing correctly placed implants in anterior/posterior (left image) and lateral views (right image), respectively. C, CT scan of the lumbar spine in coronal and lateral views showing intervertebral bony fusion of the interbody cage at L5/S1.