A 21-year-old female was admitted to the physical therapy and rehabilitation outpatient clinic. The patient had a history of dental infection and ceftriaxone treatment two months prior and laminectomy for lumbar disc herniation one month prior to admission. Approximately 10 days after the beginning of the dental infection, the patient complained of pain in the right thigh, which rapidly spread to both lower extremities, followed by progressive loss of strength in the right lower extremity, foot drop, and urinary incontinence. Lumbar MRI performed at an external center revealed diffuse bulging at the L1-2 level on T2-weighted sections, broad-based compression of the tectal sac and diffuse bulging at the L2-3 and L3-4 levels (Figure 1). Figure 1T2-weighted sagittal magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar vertebral region showing root compression on the background of diffuse bulging at the L2-3 level. The patient had some postoperative complaints after laminectomy. Among them, urinary incontinence symptoms resolved over time; however, pain in both lower extremities and weakness in the right lower extremity, as well as of foot drop, continued. Written informed consent was obtained from patient. The patient returned to the physical medicine and rehabilitation clinic one month after the operation with complaints of pain in both lower extremities, loss of sensation, and loss of strength in the right lower extremity and lower foot. The patient was admitted to the physical therapy and rehabilitation clinic to relieve pain and improve functional status. On clinical examination, vital signs were stable, and the patient’s general condition was moderate, oriented, and cooperative. The cranial nerve examination was normal. Muscle strength was complete in the upper extremities, 2/5 proximally and 1/5 distally in the right lower extremity, and 4/5 proximally and distally in the left lower extremity. Deep tendon reflexes were hyperactive bilaterally in the upper and lower extremities, and the abdominal skin reflex could not be obtained from superficial reflexes. Bilateral Babinski reflexes were positive, and clonus was detected. According to the American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale, the sensory level was T5, the motor level was L2, the neurological injury level was T5, and the impairment grade was D. The patient also complained of burning, numbness, tingling, and a pins-and-needles sensation; other system examination findings were normal. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation therapy was administered for dorsiflexion of the right foot. Bilateral lower extremity passive and active range of motion exercises and strengthening exercises were prescribed. The patient was requested to be evaluated by neurosurgery and neurology departments due to pyramidal neuron findings. No pathology was observed on brain diffusion MRI, electroencephalography, or electromyography in the investigations ordered by the related departments. Brain MRI revealed several hyperintense nonspecific plaques in the subcortical area in the periventricular deep white matter in both cerebral hemispheres. Contrast-enhanced T1-weighted lumbar and sacral MRI revealed intensity changes secondary to the operation at the L2-3 level, narrowing of the spinal canal, mild compression of the conus medullaris, and protrusion of the disc and a left hemilaminectomy defect at the L3 level. As a result of these findings, the neurology department suggested that the patient should be evaluated by the neurosurgery department regarding events secondary to the operation. However, the neurosurgery department did not consider neurosurgical intervention necessary for the patient's current condition and did not provide any additional recommendations either. The patient history revealed that she did not have any symptoms suggestive of infection within one month after surgery. There were no findings suggestive of infection on the lumbar MRI taken after admission to our clinic. Infection is most often blamed for the pathogenesis of LETM. The patient had a history of dental infection that was diagnosed and treated by a dentist. When we evaluated laboratory findings, the dentist did not request a blood test when the patient had a dental infection (two months prior). The blood test (C-reactive protein [CRP], erythrocyte sedimentation rate [ESR], and hemogram) values of the patient at the time of spinal cord surgery (one month prior) were within normal ranges. The CRP level of the patient when she returned to the outpatient clinic was 11.47 mg/L (reference range, 0 to 5 mg/L), and the ESR was 38 mm/h (reference range, 0 to 20 mm/h). The white blood cell and lymphocyte values were within normal limits. Although the CRP and ESR values were higher than the upper limit of the reference value, they were not considered to be clinically significant for severe infection. As a result of consultation with the infectious diseases department, it was evaluated that it was unlikely that transverse myelitis would develop after a mild infection such as a dental infection, and that the patient did not have a significant infection based on laboratory and clinical history. During hospitalization, the patient's muscle strength improved, and the right lower extremity muscle strength increased 4/5 proximally and 2/5 distally. On the twenty seventh day, lower extremity strength improved, but bilateral lower extremity muscle strength decreased to 2/5 proximally and 1/5 distally within two days. Therefore, MRI of the thoracic vertebrae, the only spinal region that had not been previously imaged, was performed. On T2-weighted axial MRI, mild expansion and diffuse hyperintensity in the medulla spinalis along the length of approximately five vertebral segments at the upper thoracic level were observed. Patchy signal changes were observed in the medulla spinalis on axial images at the middle-to-lower thoracic level (Figure 2a, b). Figure 2(a) Thoracic contrast-enhanced T2-weighted MRI showing a hyperintense lesion in the sagittal plane. (b) Patchy appearance in the medulla spinalis in the axial section on thoracic noncontrast-enhanced T2-weighted MRI. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. Intravenous pulse steroid treatment was started upon evaluation of the findings as significant in terms of LETM. Dramatic improvement was observed in the patient who received a total of 7 g of methylprednisolone in nine days. Neuropathic complaints and sensory deficits decreased significantly, and muscle strength was measured as 4/5 in the bilateral lower extremities. Vasculitis markers were used to investigate the etiology of LETM. Lumbar puncture was performed. Cerebrospinal f luid pressure, cell count, and biochemistry were normal. The patient’s serum was sent to the laboratory for NMO-IgG (neuromyelitis optica-immunoglobulin G) and anti-MOG antibody detection. Thorax computed tomography was performed to investigate sarcoidosis. Angiotensin-converting enzyme levels were analyzed. The patient was investigated for systemic lupus erythematosus, Behçet's disease, and uveitis. All the results of further investigations were normal. Idiopathic LETM was diagnosed on the basis of the joint opinion of neurology, neurosurgery, and physiotherapy clinics. The patient was discharged after 40 sessions of rehabilitation treatment.