A 73-year-old female with a history of duodenal ulcer had undergone two prior lumbar spine surgeries: transforaminal interbody fusion (TLIF) from L3 to L5 nine years ago for lumbar spinal canal stenosis and an extension of the spinal fusion to L2 with combined anterior and posterior approaches for ASD six years ago. These surgeries resulted in lumbar fusion from L2 to L5. One year ago, she began experiencing lower back and leg pain. Radiographs showed the disappearance of the disc space at L1-2 and the progression of local kyphosis (Figure 1A). CT revealed a pale calcified lesion in the ventral epidural space at the L1 level (Figures 1B-1C). Her clinician opted for conservative management with a rigid brace. However, three months ago, her symptoms progressed, leading to bilateral lower limb paralysis (1-3 according to the Manual Muscle Test), paresthesia, bladder-rectum disorder, and gait disturbance. Blood tests showed mild renal dysfunction (blood urea nitrogen: 10.7 mg/dL; creatinine: 0.64 mg/dL; eGFR: 68.2 ml/min/1.73 m²), but serum calcium (8.9 mEq/L), phosphorus (4.4 mEq/L), and parathyroid hormone levels were within normal ranges. CT revealed enlarged calcified lesions at the anterolateral aspect of the left T12-L1 facet joint and in the ventral epidural space at T12-L1 (Figure 2A-2C). (A) Lateral neutral radiographs show the disappearance of the disc space at L1-L2 and a kyphotic deformity (T12-L2 Cobb angle = 30°). (B) Sagittal CT image. (C) Axial CT image reveals a pale calcified lesion (indicated by white arrowhead) in the ventral epidural space at the L1 level. (A) Sagittal CT scan reveals the enlarged calcified lesion in ventral epidural space at T12-L1. (B) Axial CT image showsa calcified lesion (indicated by asterisk) at the anterolateral aspect of the left T12-L1 facet joint. (C) Axial CT imageshows the calcified lesion (indicated by white arrowhead) in the ventral epidural space at the L1 level. MRI showed the epidural lesion that appeared hypointense on T2-weighted images and hypointense to isointense on T1-weighted images (Figure 3A-3B). The patient underwent decompression and extended fusion surgery (Figure 4A-4B). For decompression, a T12-L2 laminectomy was performed. The calcified lesion at the anterolateral aspect of the left T12-L1 facet joint was excised. To access the ventral epidural lesion via a posterior approach, the medial half of the T12-L1 facet joint and part of the L1 pedicle on the left side were resected. Complete resection of the ventral epidural lesion was challenging due to the risk of intraoperative neurological complications. Therefore, partial resection was carried out instead. A white calcified substance was extracted from the lesion, with no obvious pus (Figure 5). Ultrasound confirmed adequate decompression of the spinal cord. For extended fusion, the previously inserted bilateral L2 pedicle screws and rods were removed, and pedicle screws were inserted bilaterally at T11 and T12 and on the right side at L1, with rods threaded through the screw heads spanning from T11 to L5. In addition, bone grafts harvested from the iliac crest were placed on the bilateral decorticated transverse processes from T11 to L2 and the right T12-L1 and L1-2 facet joints. Pathological examination revealed degenerated ligamentous and necrotic tissue with associated dystrophic calcification. The crystals were not composed of calcium pyrophosphate or uric acid. Soft tissue cultures were negative. Postoperatively, her lower limb strength improved, and within three months, she was able to walk indoors with a cane. At the six-month follow-up, her neurological examination remained stable, and the residual calcified lesions showed regression. Preoperative MRI images show the epidural lesion (indicated by white arrowhead), which appeared hypointense on T2-weighted images (A) and hypointense to isointense on T1-weighted images (B). (A) Anteroposterior view. (B) Lateral neutral view. A white calcified substance was extracted from the lesion intraoperatively.