The 67-year-old woman presenting with recurrent lower back pain, numbness, and swelling in the left lower limb for over 6 months. Previous conservative treatments yielded minimal relief. DR imaging showed anterior displacement of the L4 vertebral body and reduced L5/S1 intervertebral height. CT imaging confirmed L4 anterior slippage with L4/5 segmental spinal stenosis, a disc vacuum phenomenon at L5/S1, and a gas-containing cyst at the left posterior margin of the intervertebral disc. MRI imaging revealed a low-signal area on T1-weighted imaging/T2-weighted imaging sequences at the cyst location. A preliminary diagnosis of L5/S1 gas-containing disc cyst with adjacent L4/5 spondylolisthesis was established based on comprehensive clinical assessments. And a two-segment minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion was performed at L4/5 and L5/S1. The patient was a 67-year-old woman presenting with recurrent lower back pain, numbness, and swelling in the left lower limb for over 6 months [visual analogue scale (VAS) score = 7]. The pain was radiating in nature, extending to the posterior and lateral aspects of the left calf, with intermittent radiating pain in the lateral aspect of the right calf. Symptoms worsened with ambulation, limiting walking distance to approximately 50 meters due to intermittent claudication. Previous conservative treatments, including physical therapy, yielded minimal relief. The patient had no history of lumbar trauma or surgery. Neurological examination revealed a strongly positive Lasègue's sign on the left and a positive response on the right. Radiographic imaging (Figure 1A) showed anterior displacement of the L4 vertebral body and reduced L5/S1 intervertebral height, leading to foraminal stenosis. Computed tomography (CT) imaging confirmed L4 anterior slippage with L4/5 segmental spinal stenosis (Figure 1B), a disc vacuum phenomenon at L5/S1, and a gas-containing cyst at the left posterior margin of the intervertebral disc (Figure 1C). Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a low-signal area on T1-weighted imaging/T2-weighted imaging sequences at the cyst location, consistent with a gas-containing discal cyst (Figure 1D). Clinically, the patient exhibited low back pain with posterolateral radiation to the left lower limb and lateral radiation to the right, consistent with L4 and L5 nerve root involvement. Based on neurological and imaging findings, the symptoms were attributed to compression from the L5/S1 pneumatic cyst and spinal stenosis secondary to L4/5 spondylolisthesis. A two-segment MIS-TLIF was performed at L4/5 and L5/S1 (preoperative VAS score = 7). During surgery, the degenerative disc tissue and cyst wall were excised (Figure 2B), the slipped vertebrae were realigned (Figure 2C), and interbody fusion, along with placement of pedicle screws, was performed to restore spinal stability (Figure 2A). Postoperatively, the patient experienced significant symptom relief (postoperative VAS score = 2), with CT confirming cyst resolution, restored L5/S1 intervertebral height, and L4/5 stability (Figure 2). At 1-month follow-up, the patient reported minimal pain (VAS = 1). By 3 months, intermittent lumbar soreness and distension persisted; however, lower extremity symptoms had fully resolved. (A) Preoperative dynamic DR showed that the intervertebral height of L5/S1 segment was reduced, and L4 slipped forward I° (green arrow); (B) preoperative CT suggested that the left side of L5/S1 contained a pneumatic cyst, with the corresponding nerve root compression (yellow arrow). The intervertebral height of the corresponding segment was reduced, with the sign of intervertebral disc vacuum; (C) Preoperative CT showed that the L4 slipped forward I°, with spinal stenosis at the corresponding level (green arrow); (D) Preoperative MRI showed hypointense T1/T2 images on the left side of L5/S1 (yellow arrow). (A) postoperative DR showed that the intervertebral height of the L5/S1 segment was restored and the L4 slip was corrected; (B) postoperative CT showed that the cyst on the left side of the L5/S1 had disappeared (yellow arrow), and the intervertebral height of the corresponding segment was restored; (C) postoperative CT showed that the L4 slip was corrected (green arrow).