A 29-year-old man presented with a chief complaint of lower back pain and pain in the left leg. He had no relevant past medical history. Conservative treatment, including administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and use of an orthosis, had been tried by a local doctor in the preceding 12 months; however, symptoms had gradually worsened over four months. He was referred to our department for further treatment. On initial examination, he exhibited no loss of muscle power and no evidence of a sensory deficit in his lower extremities. Deep tendon reflexes, such as the patellar tendon reflex and Achilles tendon reflex, were hypoactive. The femoral nerve stretch test was positive in the left leg. No bladder or bowel disturbance was found. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a dumbbell-shaped tumor measuring 32 x 29 x 12 mm at the L2-3 level on the left side that showed homogeneously isointensity on T1-weighted images and slightly heterogeneously hyperintensity on T2-weighted images and was homogeneously enhanced with Gd-DTPA (Figures 1A-1C). The tumor extended from the left side of the L2-3 spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen. Plain and reconstructive computed tomography (CT) images showed a calcified mass within the dura mater at the L2-3 levels (Figure 1D). The differential diagnoses were schwannoma and meningioma. There is a dumbbell-shaped tumor with transforaminal extension at the left L2-3 level. It appears (A) homogeneously isointense (arrow) on the T1-weighted image, (B) slightly heterogeneously hyperintense (arrow) on the T2-weighted image, and (C) shows homogeneous enhancement (arrow) on gadolinium-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA). (D) CT shows a calcified portion (arrow) in the tumor (D). (E) MRI (axial) showing the presence of residual tumor (arrow) after surgery on Gd-DTPA. (F, G) MRI showing no evidence of recurrence (arrow), five years after surgery on the T2-weighted image. Surgery was performed under general anesthesia in the prone position with intraoperative neuromonitoring. A left-sided lateral laminectomy was performed at L2 and L3 to expose the posterior surface of the thecal sac. First, an extradural mass was located at the left lateral aspect of the thecal dural sac (Figure 2A), the epidural space just above the left L3 nerve root. After debulking the extradural mass using an ultrasonic surgical aspirator, we performed subcapsular removal of the extradural mass through the intervertebral foramen. Next, the dura mater was incised just above the posterior surface of the thecal sac. A white solid mass was observed, penetrating the left dura mater (Figure 2B). The mass was dissected around the cauda equina. After removal of the mass, the left lateral wall of the thecal sac was also found to have been penetrated (Figure 2C). Collagen matrix grafts (DuraGen; Integra LifeSciences, Princeton, NJ) were cut to be larger than the dural defect. The collagen matrix graft was inserted into the subdural space as an inlay graft (Figure 2D). An onlay graft was then placed over the dural defect (Figure 2E), covering it medially and externally, hydrated with saline, and reinforced with fibrin glue. The collagen matrix graft was inserted into the subdural space as an inlay graft (Figure 2D). Then, an onlay graft was placed into the dural defect (Figure 2E), covering the defect medially and externally, hydrated with saline, and reinforced with fibrin glue. We completed the surgery after closing a dural incision in the posterior wall. (A) The fibrous capsule covering the surface of the extradural tumor (※). The vascular-rich, fragile component appeared inside. (B) Intraoperative image showing that the intradural tumor (※) was attached to the dura and did not involve the nerve roots of the cauda equina. (C) A penetration (※) was identified at the left lateral wall of the thecal sac after removal of the intradural mass. (D) A collagen matrix graft was inserted into the subdural space as an inlay graft (arrow) and placed on the inner side of the dural defect. (E) An onlay graft was then placed over the dural defect, covering it medially and externally. Histological examination showed the tumor was hypercellular and composed of undifferentiated small round and spindle cells with a high nucleocytoplasmic ratio, and dispersed cartilage islands. However, cartilage islands with calcification resemble bone formation (Figures 3A-3B). The small round cells were arranged in structures separated by prominent staghorn-shaped blood vessels (Figure 3C). For immunohistochemistry, the tumor cells were positive for CD99 and negative for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and S-100 protein (Figures 3D-3F). The Ki-67 labeling index was approximately 10%-20% (Figure 3G). They lacked typical histopathological features, and no diagnosis was reached. Therefore, a genetic search was performed. The HEY1::NCOA2 fusion transcript was detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). (Figure 3H). Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with MCS. (A and B) (×100) Histological examination revealed that the tumor was hypercellular and composed of undifferentiated small round and spindle cells with a high nucleocytoplasmic ratio, along with dispersed cartilage islands. However, cartilage islands with calcification resemble bone formation (black asterisks). The black frame indicates high magnification. (C) (×200) The small round cells were arranged in structures separated by prominent staghorn-shaped blood vessels. (D-F) (×200) Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the tumor cells were positive for CD99 (D) and negative for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) (E) and S-100 protein (F). (G) (×200) The Ki-67 labeling index was approximately 10%-20%. (H) RT-PCR confirmed the presence of HEY1::NOCOA fusion. EX4-EX13 and EX4-EX14 fusion genes were detected. RT-PCR, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction Radiologic imaging confirmed that the mass had been subtotally resected (Figure 1E). After surgical intervention, he experienced mild lower back pain when moving sometimes, and the pain in his left leg had disappeared. No cerebrospinal fluid leakage after surgery was observed. Based on the histological and molecular biological analyses described above, a final diagnosis of MCS was made. Therefore, he received adjuvant radiotherapy with 66 Gy in 33 fractions. He was followed up for five years without any recurrences, based on neuroimaging studies that were conducted without enhancement due to the presence of allergies (Figures 1F, 1G).