A 59-year-old woman with a past medical history significant for hypertension and obesity was hospitalized due to 3 weeks of bilateral ascending lower extremity numbness and weakness. Due to concerns about possible Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) or Acute Inflammatory Demyelinating Neuropathy (AIDN), a bedside LP was performed to collect CSF samples and the patient was started on intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). The initial LP was unsuccessful in collecting samples, and the patient was scheduled to have interventional radiology (IR) attempt LP again the next day. During the night, the patient’s blood pressure (BP) dropped to 77/51 with tachycardia and hemoglobin dropped from 15.0 to 13.0. CT abdomen and pelvis revealed a retroperitoneal bleed and hematoma on the left psoas muscle (Figs. 1, 2), resulting in the patient being transferred to the neuroscience critical care unit (NCCU).Fig. 1Left psoas muscle (P) with a small left retroperitoneal hematoma (H). Foci of air (arrows) were noted along the anterior aspect of the left psoas muscle as well as the infrarenal abdominal aorta.Fig 1Fig. 2Sagittal view of left psoas hematoma (H).Fig 2 Left psoas muscle (P) with a small left retroperitoneal hematoma (H). Foci of air (arrows) were noted along the anterior aspect of the left psoas muscle as well as the infrarenal abdominal aorta. Sagittal view of left psoas hematoma (H). At this point, IR was consulted to find and embolize the source of the bleeding. The patient was brought to the IR suite and the right common femoral artery was accessed with a 21 Gauge micropuncture kit using ultrasound guidance. The access was upsized to a 5 Fr, 10 cm sheath using Seldinger’s technique. A 5 Fr reverse curve catheter was advanced through the right common femoral artery to the abdominal aorta (Fig. 3), and the left lumbar arteries L1-L4 were individually selected and digital subtraction angiogram (DSA) performed to look for signs of hemorrhage (Fig. 4). While no contrast active extravasation was detected, the left L4 lumbar vessel showed vasospasm, a hemodynamic vessel response to recent bleeding (Fig. 5). After selecting the left L4 lumbar artery with a 2.4 Fr microcatheter, embolization was performed with 3 microcoils followed by Gelfoam slurry. Postembolization DSA showed successful hemostasis (Fig. 6). No significant hemodynamic events occurred for the remainder of the patient’s hospitalization. The patient completed IVIG therapy and was discharged after 5 additional days of hospitalization with significantly improved lower extremity neurological function and planned outpatient follow-up.Fig. 3Initial abdominal aortogram showing renal arteries, iliac arteries, and lumbar arteries.Fig 3Fig. 4Left L2 arteriogram, which showed no signs of vasospasm or extravasation.Fig 4Fig. 5Left L4 arteriogram with signs of reduced blood flow, constantly narrowed arteries, and gradual tapering at more distal vessels, consistent with vasospasm.Fig 5Fig. 6Postcoil left L4 arteriogram showing successful embolization.Fig 6 Initial abdominal aortogram showing renal arteries, iliac arteries, and lumbar arteries. Left L2 arteriogram, which showed no signs of vasospasm or extravasation. Left L4 arteriogram with signs of reduced blood flow, constantly narrowed arteries, and gradual tapering at more distal vessels, consistent with vasospasm. Postcoil left L4 arteriogram showing successful embolization.