The author reports a case of 21-year-female with no known comorbidities who presented to neuro OPD with complaint of progressive bilateral lower limb weakness for 2 weeks, associated with bowel and bladder incontinence for 3 days. There is no significant past or family history. A 21-year-old female with no known comorbidities visited the Department of Medicine with a chief complaint of progressive bilateral lower limb weakness for 2 weeks, which initially started with a tingling sensation in bilateral lower leg and later involved weakness of both legs leading to inability in movement of both lower limbs. Paraparesis is associated with bowel and bladder incontinence for 3 days. She also experienced similar symptoms and presented to another center where symptomatic care was given. On physical evaluation, the patient was ill looking; vitals were stable. On neurological examination, she was conscious, cooperative and well oriented to time, place and person, with a glasgow coma scale of 15/15, and pupils bilaterally round, regular and reactive. The tone of muscle was normal in bilateral upper extremities, while increased in lower extremities; power was 5/5 in bilateral upper limb extremities and 2/5 in bilateral lower limb extremities, while reflexes were intact with Grade 2 + in bilateral upper limbs and hyperreflexia with clonus; Grade 4 + reflex was present in bilateral lower limbs. Plantar reflex was bilaterally down going. Sensory examination was bilaterally intact and equal over all the dermatomes; Cranial nerve examination was normal, and meningeal signs were absent. Per rectal examination showed loss of sphincter control. Fundus examination was normal. All other physical findings were normal. Initial investigations like complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, renal function test, and liver function test were all normal; HIV serostatus, VDRL test, serum antinuclear antibody, ENA panel, APLA panel were all negative. CSF analysis showed scattered lymphocytes only (4-5/HPF); glucose = 99 mg/dL; protein = 34.6 mg/dL; LDH = 42.0 mg/dL; ADA = 7.9; no gram stain reaction/AFB; No growth after 48 hours of CSF culture, and CSF oligoclonal bands were negative. Contrast enhanced MRI of cervical spine was done as shown in Figure 1. Then brain MRI and screening of dorsal and lumbar spine (Sagittal T2 images) were done as shown in Figure 2 and Figure 3. Based on the suspicion of NMO, NMO panel (anti-aquaporin 4 and MOG Ab) was sent where anti-aquaporin 4 antibody was seen positive. Following diagnosis of NMO, the patient is started on IV 1 g of methylprednisolone once a day for 5 days, followed by oral prednisolone 40 mg per day (1 mg/kg/day) and oral azathioprine 150 mg once a day for 4 months. After the treatment and with continued physiotherapy, her weakness improved progressively, and at 2 months follow-up she started walking by herself and her overall condition improved. Figure 1.Contrast enhanced-MRI cervical spine: Sagittal TIW, T2W, FAT SAT; coronal STIR; and axial TIW, T2W, and MERGE images. Post-Gd images reveal a longitudinally extensive T2 hyperintensity extending from the cervicomedullary junction to the lower endplate of D5 vertebral body. It appears hypointense in Ti WI and hyperintense in T2 WI & STIR images. On post-contrast study, there is patchy enhancement predominantly in posterior aspect of spinal cord. Figure 2.MRI of the brain: Axial T1, 12, ELAIR: Coronal 12 and sagittal T1-weighted images. Post-Gd images reveal no abnormality in the brain. Figure 3.Contrast enhanced-MRI of the spine: Revealed a longitudinally extensive T2 hyperintensity extending from the cervicomedullary junction to the lower endplate of the D5 vertebral body. It appears hypointense in Ti WI and hyperintense in T2 WI & STIR images. On the postcontrast study, there is patchy enhancement predominantly in the posterior aspect of the spinal cord. Contrast enhanced-MRI cervical spine: Sagittal TIW, T2W, FAT SAT; coronal STIR; and axial TIW, T2W, and MERGE images. Post-Gd images reveal a longitudinally extensive T2 hyperintensity extending from the cervicomedullary junction to the lower endplate of D5 vertebral body. It appears hypointense in Ti WI and hyperintense in T2 WI & STIR images. On post-contrast study, there is patchy enhancement predominantly in posterior aspect of spinal cord. MRI of the brain: Axial T1, 12, ELAIR: Coronal 12 and sagittal T1-weighted images. Post-Gd images reveal no abnormality in the brain. Contrast enhanced-MRI of the spine: Revealed a longitudinally extensive T2 hyperintensity extending from the cervicomedullary junction to the lower endplate of the D5 vertebral body. It appears hypointense in Ti WI and hyperintense in T2 WI & STIR images. On the postcontrast study, there is patchy enhancement predominantly in the posterior aspect of the spinal cord.