A 45-year-old patient engaged in a marathon preparation was diagnosed with chronic patellar tendinopathy. He reported experiencing pain during long-distance runs and interval training, as well as during functional tests. Treatment involved only repeated lumbar movement exercises, which elicited changes in knee pain and functional limitations. A 45-year old male was referred by his sports physician with a PT diagnosis in the right knee. The patient provided consent for the case report to be written with anonymized details. The subject of this case report worked as a fire security agent and was a voluntary fireman, which frequently required him to walk for long periods of time. He engaged in regular running activities and was preparing for a marathon, with a weekly training regimen involving 60 kilometers of running accompanied by lower limb strengthening exercises. The subject described experiencing pain at the inferior pole of the patella (Figure 1). He sought consultation due to pain with his primary objective being to complete his marathon training regimen effectively and to participate in the upcoming marathon scheduled for one month later. The patient reported a history of recurrent episodes of anterior knee pain over the prior decade with the current episode beginning a year prior to consultation. Additionally, he experienced intermittent LBP exacerbated by heavy lifting as well as left Achilles tendon pain which had been previously managed with ice application, shockwave therapy, and platelet-rich plasma injections. The knee symptoms were intermittent and exacerbated by sitting for prolonged periods, walking after prolonged sitting, and squatting. Pain was particularly noticeable in the morning after running sessions, during knee flexion, and while running, particularly during long-distance and interval training. Symptoms were alleviated by massage, wearing a patellar tendon strap, and maintaining the knee in extension. Continued knee use exacerbated the pain, and he experienced disrupted sleep when lying prone. He had not received any prior treatment for the knee issue. The patient’s overall health was good, and he was not taking any medications. Knee magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and arthrograms did not reveal any significant findings, while a lumbar spine MRI indicated the presence of L5-S1 discopathy.