A 55-year-old woman presented with a seven-month history of low back pain radiating to the right thigh and leg, unresponsive to analgesia and motor physical therapy. The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) recorded lumbar pain as 6/10 and leg pain as 7/10. Initial physical examination revealed normal findings, with intact lower limb strength, no sensory deficits, normoreflexia, and negative provocation tests. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a scoliotic posture of the lumbar spine with minimal degenerative retrolisthesis from L2 to L4, diffuse disc degeneration (most pronounced at L4-L5 and L5-S1), Modic type I changes, bilateral disc bulging at L3-L4, L4-L5, and L5-S1 (right greater than left), and multilevel facet hypertrophy (Figure 1). Given persistent pain despite physiotherapy, bilateral lumbar facet injections from L2 to S1 and right L3 and L4 nerve root injections were performed under fluoroscopic guidance. Notably, the patient had no known history of coagulopathy, liver disease, anticoagulant therapy, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use at the time of diagnosis and intervention. Preoperative laboratory showed an INR of 1.0, platelet count of 270,000, and fibrinogen level of 326. The medial branch dorsal facet block technique was employed (Figure 2), along with a standardized transforaminal approach under fluoroscopic guidance. During the foraminal injection, the needle was positioned without any blood or cerebrospinal fluid return, and no paresthesia was induced during needle placement. Omnipaque contrast agent (0.5mL) was injected under fluoroscopic guidance (Figure 3). A 5mL solution containing 1.5mL of triamcinolone (20mg/mL), 1.5mL ropivacaine (7.5mg/mL), and 2mL 0.9% saline was administered in fractional doses. The procedure was completed without complications, and the patient remained asymptomatic in the recovery room with no new signs or symptoms of neural compression, such as recent-onset numbness, weakness, bowel or bladder dysfunction, or severe radicular back pain. On the third day post-injection, the patient returned to the clinic with progressive weakness in the left lower limb, sensory loss in the left thigh, and gait dysfunction. Visual Analog Scale lumbar pain was 4/10, leg pain was 9/10, and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) indicated moderate disability (40%). Physical examination revealed grade 4 strength in the left quadriceps, sensory loss in the L3 dermatome extending from the anterolateral thigh to the anteromedial left leg, and a positive Nachlas test result on the left side. The patient was referred for urgent gadolinium-enhanced MRI, which showed an abnormal focal signal in the left L3-L4 foraminal region, extending from the lateral recess to the extraforaminal region, compressing the left L3 nerve root anteriorly, with peripheral inflammatory enhancement (Figure 4). Infection and extruded disc herniation were discussed with the radiologist as possible etiological factors, but were considered unlikely based on the imaging findings and the patient's symptom onset, leading to perineural hematoma as the primary diagnostic hypothesis. The patient was admitted for urgent surgical treatment, which involved left L3-L4 tubular lumbar decompression (Figures 5A and 5B). Histopathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of a hematoma with small fragments of fibroconnective tissue, associated with areas of organizing hemorrhage (Figure 6). On the first postoperative day, the patient's symptoms began to improve, with full recovery to baseline within one month, a VAS leg pain of 1/10, and an ODI indicating minimal disability (10%). Strength, sensation, and pain relief were restored to preprocedural levels. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, CAAE: 82467924.5.0000.0071; # 7.062.651.