A 66-year-old man was admitted with complaints of lower back and left lower limb pain accompanied with numbness for more than 10 days, with no apparent cause. He reported that the pain was primarily localized to the lumbosacral region, left buttock, and anterior side of the left calf. The numbness was mainly present on the anterior side of the left calf and the medial side of the left foot. The symptoms worsened with standing or walking, and intermittent claudication in the left lower limb occurred after a few minutes of walking. The patient did not experience urinary or fecal dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at a local hospital revealed lumbar spinal stenosis at L3/4 and L4/5 levels. Nonsurgical treatments, including oral medication and physical therapy, failed to provide satisfactory symptom relief. The patient was therefore referred to the Department of Orthopaedics, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical University (Army Medical University), China, in July 2022 for further treatment, including surgical intervention. The patient had a history of smoking and alcohol consumption for >40 and >30 years, respectively. Physical examination revealed reduced superficial sensation of the skin on the posterolateral side of the left thigh, anteromedial side of the calf, and medial side of the left foot compared with that on the contralateral side. The muscle strength of the bilateral iliopsoas, quadriceps femoris, and extensor hallucis longus was grade 4, while that of the remaining lower limb muscles was grade 5. The Laseque sign was positive at 50°, and the strengthening test was also positive. Periurethral and perianal sensation as well as anal sphincter muscle strength were normal. MRI revealed disc herniation at L3/4 (Figure 1(a)) and L4/5 (Figure 1(b)) levels, with significant narrowing of the central canal and bilateral lateral recess at the corresponding levels. No significant abnormalities were observed in hematology or biochemical test results (Table 1). (a–b) Sagittal and axial magnetic resonance image of the lumbar spine showing disc herniation at L3/4 and L4/5 levels, with the central canal and bilateral lateral recess significantly narrowed at the corresponding level. (c) The first postoperative anteroposterior and lateral lumbar X-ray showed that the pedicle screw length was appropriate, the screw and cage were well-positioned, and the screw did not enter the central canal or foramen intervertebrale and (d) the first postoperative urgent lumbar CT three-dimensional reconstruction examination also showed that the implants were in good position, and an epidural hematoma (red dotted circle) was formed in the lumbar surgery area. CT: computed tomography. Coagulation function, HGB, and PLT were examined at each time point before and after the operation. The results showed no significant abnormality in hematology and biochemistry. PT: prothrombin time; PT-INR: prothrombin time–international normalized ratio; PT%: prothrombin time percentage; APTT: activated partial thromboplastin time; Fib: fibrinogen; TT: thrombin time; HGB: hemoglobin; PLT: platelet count. Based on the patient’s medical history, physical findings, and imaging results, the diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation with spinal stenosis was confirmed, and the patient fully met the surgical indications. After obtaining the patient’s written informed consent, L3/4 and L4/5 dual-segment transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) surgery was performed under general anesthesia, including L3/4 and L4/5 left laminectomy. The total intraoperative blood loss was approximately 200 mL. Before the end of the procedure, the dural sac and the left L3, L4, and L5 nerve roots were observed to be intact, relaxed, and thoroughly decompressed. A drainage tube was placed on each side of the incision. After recovery from anesthesia, the patient’s lower limb mobility was normal, and muscle strength was consistent with preoperative findings. On the first postoperative day, the patient reported reduced numbness in the left calf and foot and demonstrated good voluntary movement of both lower limbs. The total drained volume of bloody fluid was 10 mL on the left and 23 mL on the right. On the second postoperative day, the patient experienced pain, numbness, and weakness in both lower limbs, accompanied with impaired mobility, particularly in the ankles and feet. Physical examination revealed decreased sensation on the posterolateral aspects of both thighs, anteromedial and anterolateral aspects of both calves, and the dorsum and soles of both feet. The muscle strength of the bilateral iliopsoas and quadriceps femoris was grade 4. The strength of the left tibialis anterior muscle and extensor hallucis longus was significantly reduced to grade 2, and that of the right tibialis anterior muscle and extensor hallucis longus significantly decreased to grades 1–2. The strength of the plantar flexor muscles, such as the gastrocnemius in both feet, was grade 4. The total drainage volume of bloody fluid on the left and right was 5 and 17 mL, respectively. Emergency lumbar X-ray showed that the implants were in good position (Figure 1(c)), and computed tomography (CT) three-dimensional reconstruction suggested the presence of an epidural hematoma in the lumbar surgical area (Figure 1(d)). Emergency surgery was performed, consisting of exploration, hematoma removal, and spinal canal decompression. Intraoperative exploration revealed that the positions of the pedicle screws and titanium rods were normal. A hematoma measuring approximately 3 × 3 × 4 cm was detected at the fenestration site of the L3/4 and L4/5 laminae. The hematoma was solidified with slightly increased elasticity and extended into the spinal canal. The left L4 and L5 nerve roots were compressed. The hematoma was carefully separated from the nerve roots and thoroughly aspirated. The four walls of the pedicles implanted with screws were intact. The left L4 and L5 nerve roots were congested and edematous but structurally intact. To achieve complete nerve root decompression, the left L4 and L5 nerve root outlets were re-expanded. The right L3/4 and L4/5 laminae as well as ligamentum flavum were excised. The right lateral recess and nerve root outlet were expanded, achieving thorough decompression. A drainage tube was again placed on each side of the incision. After the emergency surgery, physical examination revealed decreased sensation on the lateral aspect of both calves and the dorsum of the right foot. The strength of the left ankle dorsum extensor and extensor hallucis longus was approximately grade 4, while the strength of the right tibialis anterior muscle and extensor hallucis longus was grade 1. Postoperatively, the patient received antibiotic therapy to prevent infection, mannitol to reduce swelling, hormones (dexamethasone sodium phosphate injection) to alleviate inflammation, and cimetidine to prevent gastrointestinal stress reactions and provide pain relief. Neurotrophic therapy was also administered. In addition, the patient was given short-term methylprednisolone as pulse therapy. The incision drainage tubes were kept unobstructed and open. The postoperative recovery status at various time points is shown in Table 2 and Figure 2. Changes in the patient’s condition and recovery status at different time points after the second operation. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging (a) Lumbar MRI was re-examined on the third day after the second surgery, and sagittal plane and axial T2-weighted MRI images indicated hypointensity signals in the spinal canal between the 12th thoracic and 2nd lumbar vertebra, suggesting a nonsurgical segment spreading epidural hematoma (yellow dotted ellipse). (b) On the sixth day after the second surgery, an MRI re-examination was conducted, which indicated that the spreading epidural hematoma had absorbed and shrunk than that before the examination (yellow dotted ellipse) and (c) re-examination of sagittal plane and axial T2-weighted MRI (fifth week after the second surgery) showed complete absorption of the epidural hematoma present between the 12th thoracic and 2nd lumbar vertebral segments. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging.