We present the case of a male patient in his mid-50s. He had twice previously presented to a different centre after experiencing persistent right leg sciatica (visual analogue scale (VAS) 6–7/10), where he was diagnosed with a lumbar disc herniation and treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) and corticosteroids on both occasions. This treatment provided moderate symptom relief, allowing him to return to normal activities with only some discomfort, with his symptoms fully recurring around 4 months later in each case. He sought a second opinion after his second recurrence, presenting to our team with LBP and right leg sciatica (VAS 10/10), which would wake him at night but without sphincter involvement or motor/sensory dysfunction. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed the presence of an intradural lesion near the superior border of the L4 vertebral body, with heterogeneous iso to hyperintensity on T2, isointensity on T1 and homogenous diffuse enhancement on T1 with contrast and fat suppression (Fig. 1). Our differential diagnoses for the lesion included ependymoma, meningioma or schwannoma. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine sagittal sequences revealing a round, intradural, extramedullary lesion at the level of the superior endplate of the L4 vertebral body which (A) on T2-weighted imaging (T2WI) demonstrates heterogeneous iso to hyperintense signal, (B) on T1WI demonstrates isointense signal, and (C) on post-contrast T1WI with fat suppression demonstrates homogenous diffuse enhancement. A GTR of the tumour was performed through a partial L3-L4 laminectomy. The dura was opened, and the dural opening was stabilised with Prolene sutures. The arachnoid was then opened, and the nerve rootlets were identified and mobilised. The upper and lower edges of the tumour were secured with surgical patties, and the tumour was identified to arise from and involve the filum terminale. This was confirmed with intraoperative neurophysiology to avoid damage to the neural structures. The nerve roots were detached from the tumour, facilitating en-block removal of the tumour along with the filum, followed by coagulation and the addition of a local haemostatic agent. The dura was sutured with 6.0 Prolene after meticulous haemostasis, and a Valsalva manoeuvre confirmed the absence of a CSF leak. The patient made a full and uneventful recovery. Histopathological examination of the lesion revealed delicate encapsulation with chief cell nests (Zellballen structures) surrounded by sustentacular cells, staining positive for Soluble 100 (S100) protein. Immunohistochemical testing was performed, revealing the neoplasm was positive for Chromatogranin A, Synaptophysin and Cytokeratin AE1/AE3 and negative for Epithelial Membrane Antigen (EMA) and Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP) (Fig. 2). A low KI-67 proliferative marker also confirmed that the tumour was benign. The above ruled out an ependymoma and produced the final diagnosis of a CENET. Immunohistochemical staining showing (A) chromogranin a positivity, (B) cytokeratin AE1/AE3 positivity, (C) epithelial membrane antigen negativity, (D) glial fibrillary acidic protein negativity, (E) soluble 100 protein positivity and (F) Synaptophysin positivity.