A 37-year-old female patient was diagnosed with SEL and underwent unilateral biportal endoscopy (UBE) after failure of conservative treatment. The surgery was performed successfully with an estimated blood loss of 20 ml and a whole operation time of 60 min. The patient experienced significant relief of her neurologic symptoms and was discharged 2 days postoperatively. She reported no symptoms other than mild weakness of the low back at the last follow-up 12 months postoperatively. UBE may be an effective alternative to open surgical treatment for symptomatic SEL with the advantages of minimal invasion and quick recovery. A 37-year-old female patient complained of low back pain with right lower extremity pain and numbness for 3 years. She described her pain as profoundly impairing her ability to carry out her daily tasks and expressed growing anxiety due to the persistent numbness and the fear of lasting nerve damage. She was obese with a body mass index (BMI) of 30.48 kg/m2. Her pain worsened when walking long distances or when she was tired after work. Physical examination revealed decreased tendon reflexes in her right knee and decreased skin sensation in front of her right thigh. After being admitted to our hospital, she underwent detailed imaging examinations and was managed conservatively using dexamethasone and mannitol. However, her symptoms were not alleviated after conservative treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the lumbar spine revealed a space-occupying lesion at the dorsal side of the dural sac in the spinal canal, resulting in spinal stenosis at the L2–L3 segment (Figure 1). The lesion appeared smooth and fusiform and exhibited homogeneously hyperintense signal characteristics on T1-weighted images consistent with fat tissue. Similar findings were found on computed tomography (CT) of the lumbar spine (Figure 2). Dynamic radiographs revealed no significant instability at the L2–L3 segment (Figure 3). Based on her symptoms, physical examinations, and imaging findings, the space-occupying lesion on the dorsal side of the dural sac at the L2–L3 segment was believed to be responsible for her symptoms. After obtaining informed consent, we performed decompression and resection of the epidural space-occupying lesion using the UBE technique. Preoperative lumbar MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted image demonstrates a hyperintense epidural mass compressing the dorsal aspect of the dural sac at the L2–L3 level, resulting in spinal canal stenosis. (B) Axial T2-weighted image at the L2–L3 level shows narrowing of the spinal canal with epidural fat accumulation causing anterior displacement and compression of the dural sac. Preoperative lumbar CT imaging. Axial CT image at the L2–L3 level reveals fat-density shadows located at the dorsal part of the dural sac, resulting in spinal canal stenosis. Dynamic lumbar spine radiographs. (A) Flexion and (B) extension views demonstrate preserved alignment at the L2–L3 level, with no signs of abnormal translation or angulation, indicating no significant segmental instability. Under general anesthesia, the patient was placed in the prone position on a radiolucent operating table. The responsible segment was confirmed using C-arm fluoroscopy. On the right side of the posterior median line, two transverse incisions were made on the proximal and distal sides centered on the L2–L3 intervertebral space. The proximal incision was used as the operating portal, while the distal incision was used as the viewing portal. The skin and fascia were sequentially incised. Endoscopic instruments were placed on the surface of the laminae and the interlaminar space. The muscle tissue of the laminae and the interlaminar space was dissected, and the ligamentum flavum between the laminae was resected. The lower margin of the proximal lamina and the upper margin of the distal lamina were removed via an endoscopic high-speed drill and rongeur, thereby enlarging the interlaminar space. The epidural space was filled with fatty soft tissue, and the right nerve root and dural sac were compressed. The fatty soft tissue was carefully dissected and removed using forceps (Figure 4A). Rhythmic pulsation of the dura mater and nerve root in the endoscopic view was considered an indicator of adequate decompression. The working cannula and endoscope were removed after careful hemostasis. Finally, the skin incision was closed using absorbable sutures. (A) Gross appearance of the excised epidural tissue. (B) Histopathological examination reveals mature adipose tissue with focal areas of calcification. The patient's symptoms significantly improved postoperatively. Histopathological examination of the excised tissue revealed adipose tissue with focal calcification (Figure 4B). Postoperative imaging examinations confirmed that the lesion on the dorsal side of the dural sac in the spinal canal had been removed (Figure 5). When asked about her recovery experience, the patient stated, “The relief was immediate. By the next day, I was able to stand upright without pain, although I still experienced some lower back weakness while standing and walking.” The patient reported no symptoms except mild weakness of the lower back, and no recurrence was found on MRI examination at the 12-month follow-up (Figure 6). Postoperative lumbar CT and MRI. (A) Sagittal CT image shows no epidural mass at the L2–L3 level with evidence of partial laminectomy. (B) Axial CT image demonstrates adequate spinal canal decompression with no residual epidural compression. (C) Three-dimensional CT reconstruction illustrates the extent of laminectomy. (D) Sagittal fat-suppressed T2-weighted MRI confirms resolution of dorsal compression and shows postoperative changes with a small residual hematoma. (E) Sagittal T2-weighted MRI further demonstrates restoration of the dural sac morphology. (F) Axial T2-weighted MRI at the L2–L3 level shows no residual mass and adequate decompression of the spinal canal, with a small amount of postoperative hematoma. Lumbar MRI at the 12-month follow-up. Sagittal and axial T2-weighted images show no evidence of recurrence at the L2–L3 level, with sustained decompression of the dural sac.