A 58-year-old woman with an 8-year history of Parkinson's disease underwent lumbar surgery (L4-L5 oblique lumbar interbody fusion, L5-S1 transverse lumbar interbody fusion, and T12-L4 posterolateral lumbar fusion), including pedicle screw implantation at a local hospital 3 years prior for degenerative lumbar spondylolisthesis and lumbar spinal stenosis. She presented with lower back pain and bilateral lower limb numbness for 7 months. The patient was diagnosed with failed back surgery syndrome and underwent posterior fixation removal, interbody fusion cage removal, decompression, fusion with bone grafting, and new internal fixation (L4-S2). However, 3 months postoperatively, the lower back pain recurred and worsened by the fourth month, accompanied by lower limb weakness. Subsequently, the patient was diagnosed with L2 and L3 vertebral fractures and spinal cord injury. A 58-year-old woman with an 8-year history of PD underwent L4-L5 OLIF, lumbar vertebrae (L) 5—sacral vertebrae (S) 1 transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion and thoracic vertebrae (T)—L4 posterolateral fusion surgery at a local hospital 3 years prior, owing to degenerative lumbar scoliosis and lumbar spinal stenosis. Approximately 7 months before admission, she developed lower back pain along with pain and numbness in both lower extremities. The numbness was more pronounced in the left leg, and the pain worsened while walking. Her PD was well controlled with a combination regimen comprising of carbidopa/levodopa compound preparation tablets, pramipexole hydrochloride, entacapone, amantadine hydrochloride, and levodopa/benserazide hydrochloride tablets. Her balance could be maintained though both lower extremities are affected. According to her clinical manifestations, she was evaluated as stage 2 according to Hoehn-Yahr stage. The rest of her family are in good health conditions. Surgical incision scars were observed in the lower back region during physical examination. Additionally, superficial sensation was diminished in the left calf and posterior thigh. Sensation in the right lower extremity remained intact. Dorsiflexion strength of both halluces was graded as 4/5. The patient reported a pain score of 6 out of 10 on the visual analogue scale. Electromyography suggested possible bilateral neural damage at the L2-S1 level. Dual-energy x-ray absorption revealed a normal density (T = 0.4 in femur). Preoperative computed tomography revealed fusion failure at L5/S1 and broken screws at the S1 level. Magnetic resonance imaging showed no evidence of spinal cord injury (Figures 1A–D). (A,B) Preoperative anteroposterior and lateral radiographs showing the broken screw (red circle), and the non-union of the cage (red rectangle). (C) Computed tomography (CT) image showing an unfused cage (red rectangle). (D) Saggital and axial magnetic resonance images (MRI) images showing no spinal cord injury. (E) Postsurgical posterolateral radiograph. (F) Posterolateral radiograph during 1.5 months’ follow-up.