A 66-year-old male presented with sciatica secondary to focal L4-5 lumbar spinal canal stenosis and an intradural schwannoma at the L3 level. He underwent an L3-L5 laminectomy for resection of the tumor and decompression of the stenosis. At surgery, primary dural closure was reinforced with a muscle graft, combined with the utilization of BioGlue® and Gel-Foam®. Six months later, he developed a partial cauda equina syndrome attributed to an magnetic resonance imaging-documented heterogeneous extradural mass at the prior durotomy site. Surgical re-exploration allowed for resection of a newly occurring granulomatous mass at the prior operative site, comprised largely of residual BioGlue®. Histopathology confirmed that this represented a foreign-body granulomatous reaction to the BioGlue. Postoperatively, the patient demonstrated rapid neurological improvement. A 66-year-old male presented with long-duration low back/right lower limb pain exacerbated by walking and standing (i.e., neurogenic claudication) and relieved with rest. The lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated L4-L5 spinal stenosis plus a well-defined intradural lesion opposite the lower border of L3 that was likely an intradural Schwannoma [Figures 1, 2a and b]. The patient underwent an L3-L5 laminectomy to decompress the L4-L5 stenosis and resect the intradural L3 schwannoma. At surgery, a primary water-tight dural closure was achieved using 4-0 Vicryl sutures, application of a muscle patch graft, and a thin layer BioGlue®. Histopathological examination revealed that the intradural mass was a benign schwannoma. Preoperative lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging sagittal view demonstrating degenerative changes with L4-L5 canal stenosis. Preoperative lumbar spine (a) Sagittal T1-weighted post-contrast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrating an intradural extramedullary mass lesion at the L3 level, causing significant spinal canal stenosis. Preoperative lumbar spine (b) Axial T1-weighted post-contrast MRI demonstrating an intradural extramedullary mass lesion at the L3 level, causing significant spinal canal stenosis. The early postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient remained neurologically intact. Approximately 6 months later, however, he developed renewed symptoms and signs of a partial cauda equina syndrome. Then, the lumbar MRI revealed a heterogeneous extradural mass at the prior durotomy site, causing marked compression of the cauda equina [Figures 3a and b]. He underwent a repeated surgical decompression. Intraoperatively, the surgeons encountered a firm extradural compressive mass composed of layered foreign-body material in layers corresponding to residual BioGlue®, muscle graft, and Gel-Foam® [Figures 4a-d]. The granuloma was completely excised, and the patient’s symptoms rapidly resolved. The histopathological examination revealed a granuloma comprised fibro-fatty tissue with dense lymphohistiocytic granulomatous inflammation and multinucleated giant cells surrounding non-absorbed BioGlue® material [Figure 5]. Postoperative lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): (a) Sagittal T2-weighted images show a layered postoperative mass lesion causing significant thecal sac compression. Postoperative lumbar spine MRI (b) Axial MRI confirms concentric compression of the thecal sac by the mass. Intraoperative photographs demonstrating the compressive extradural mass lesion formed in layers from superficial to deep. (a) The most superficial layer formed of disintegrated GelFoam mixed hematoma. Intraoperative photographs demonstrating the compressive extradural mass lesion formed in layers from superficial to deep. The superfecial layer formed by GelFoam and hematoma indicated by white arrow. (b) Residual BioGlue® material appeared as a gelatinous glue-like substance. Intraoperative photographs demonstrating the compressive extradural mass lesion formed in layers from superficial to deep. The second layer of residual BioGlue indicated with white arrow. (c) The muscle graft layer appeared as a thick fibrotic granulomatous tissue. Intraoperative photographs demonstrating the compressive extradural mass lesion formed in layers from superficial to deep. The third layer composed of Muscle graft indicated by white arrows. (d) Decompressed thecal sac following complete removal of the granulomatous material. Decompressed thecal sac after removal of granuloma material indicated by white arrow. Histopathological examination: Histopathological examination (hematoxylin and eosin stain). Histopathological sections of excised tissue demonstrating dense fibrous tissue (fibrosis) (black arrow), with marked lymphohistiocytic inflammatory infiltrate and foreign-body granulomatous reaction (white arrow). Multinucleated giant cells are identified (circle), arranged in a palisading pattern at the periphery of the fibrous tissue, consistent with a foreign-body reaction to BioGlue® (10× magnification). The black arrow pointing at upper pink area represents dense fibrous tissue (fibrosis).