A 76-year-old female patient (weight, 56 kg; height, 158 cm) was referred from the Department of Neurosurgery to the Pain Clinic with worsened lower back and bilateral leg pain that had started 3 months before presentation. In the Department of Neurosurgery, she received medications, including gabapentin, celecoxib, tramadol, and limaprost for 4 weeks. Despite medications, the patient complained of persistent severe pain. Upon visiting our Pain Clinic, the patient presented with lower back and bilateral leg pain. Radiating pain was present along the L5 and S1 dermatomes. Her pain score was eight on an 11-point Numeric Rating Scale (0 = no pain, 10 = worst pain imaginable), and no abnormal signs were observed on physical examination. The patient had a history of hypertension and had received PEN using a Racz catheter, epidural steroid injection, and medial branch block 6 months ago. Lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging revealed severe degenerative spinal stenosis at L4–L5 and intervertebral disc space narrowing at L5–S1 (Fig. 1). The patient was diagnosed with degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis and intermittent neurogenic claudication. Initially, we performed an L5 transforaminal nerve root block twice at 2-week intervals; however, her symptoms did not improve. We decided to perform a percutaneous epidural balloon neuroplasty using an inflatable balloon catheter to reduce pain and improve symptoms. Preoperative laboratory tests were normal: hemoglobin, 12.7 g/dl; platelet count, 190,000/µl; prothrombin time (international normalized ratio), 1.04; and activated partial thromboplastin time, 23.3 s. In the operating room, the patient was placed in a prone position with a pillow under the abdomen. The entire procedure was performed under fluoroscopy. After sterile preparation, a 16-gauge guide needle was inserted into the epidural space through the sacral hiatus. A caudal epidurogram showed a filling defect in the central epidural space at the L4 level and both L4–L5 and L5–S1 intervertebral foramina (Fig. 2). We performed neuroplasty with an inflatable balloon neuroplasty catheter (Expedio balloon catheter, Innosys Co., Ltd.) in both the foraminal and central portions of the L5 vertebra. Adhesiolysis and decompression were performed using gentle side-to-side movement of the catheter with ballooning. The balloon was filled with 0.1 ml of contrast agent, and each ballooning process was limited to 5 s. The catheter was moved only in the deflated state. After adhesiolysis and decompression, the contrast agent in the anterior epidural space spread upward above the level of L5–S1, suggesting that successful adhesiolysis had been achieved. Before catheter removal, 10 ml of a mixture of 0.5% preservative-free lidocaine, 5 mg of dexamethasone, and 1,500 IU of hyaluronidase was injected via the catheter. After injection, the catheter was pulled out into the epidural space. The practitioner withdrew both the catheter and the needle simultaneously, encountering resistance during removal. The catheter could not be removed under fluoroscopic guidance because it was trapped in the sacral and coccyx regions. Upon withdrawing the epidural catheter, its inner wire became deformed and irremovable. Subsequently, the catheter itself broke. Despite persistent attempts over several minutes, we were unable to remove the broken fragment from the coccyx. Computed tomography (CT) of the lumbar spine revealed an acute epidural fluid along the spinal cord, but it did not show the remaining catheter (Fig. 3). Subsequently, she experienced severe radiating pain in her left leg. We explained the issue and possible complications to our patient. The day after the procedure, the pain intensity decreased; however, the symptoms persisted. We decided to surgically remove the broken catheter after obtaining the patient’s consent. Seven days after the procedure, the foreign body was removed by a neurosurgeon. Under general anesthesia, the patient was placed in the prone position with an Allen bed. A vertical skin incision of 2 cm was made in the sacral area, and gentle dissection was performed around the foreign body. The foreign body was removed. The retained catheter measured 13 cm (Fig. 4). The patient tolerated the procedure well. The patient’s symptoms subsided postoperatively. No definite motor weakness was observed. At 1-month follow-up, the patient experienced no symptoms or neurological deficits.