A 53-year-old woman, with a history of pulmonary tuberculosis, was admitted to the emergency department after a high-velocity car accident by ambulance. Upon her arrival, the patient was conscious but in apparent distress secondary to pain, yet her vital signs were within normal range, blood pressure of 128/90 millimeters of mercury, heart rate of 90 beats per minute, and respiratory rate of 22 breaths per minute. Physical examination revealed a prominent lumbar sensitivity radiating to the abdomen, with diffuse abdominal tenderness, associated with a motor deficiency represented by a hyporeflexic paresis of the lower extremities. No sensory deficiency was found. No apparent cutaneous or emphysema were present in the tissue overlying the lumbar region. Since the patient was in a stable state, a whole-body CT scan was ordered to assess any internal injury. Computed tomography (CT) without and with contrast at the arterial and portal phase showed no evident traumatic injury in the brain, cervical spine, or chest. The evaluation of the abdominal level showed mild hyperdense effusion in the peritoneal and retroperitoneal space (hematic), associated with diffuse fat infiltration more prominent in the mesorectal fat. On the soft tissue window, a voluminous heterogenous prevertebral hematoma, adjacent to the fractured disc, measuring 55 mm in transverse diameter, 36 mm in anterioposterior diameter, extending for approximately 55 mm. This hematoma exerts a mass effect on the left common iliac vein and the internal iliac vein which remained permeable. The rest of the abdominal organs showed no traumatic lesions (Fig. 1).Fig. 1Axial view of enhanced CT scan at the different levels of the discal fracture. Note the fractured disc with a heterogenous appearance (white arrow), associated with a prevertebral and presacral hematoma (curved arrow). Note the hemoperitoneum (dotted arrow) and the compression exerted by the hematoma on the left common iliac vein (black arrow).Fig 1: Axial view of enhanced CT scan at the different levels of the discal fracture. Note the fractured disc with a heterogenous appearance (white arrow), associated with a prevertebral and presacral hematoma (curved arrow). Note the hemoperitoneum (dotted arrow) and the compression exerted by the hematoma on the left common iliac vein (black arrow). On the bone window, there was a widening of the L5-S1 lumbosacral joint, with an incomplete disc fracture remaining attached to the L5 vertebral body (Fig. 2).Fig. 23D volume rendering of the same CT scan showing the fractured anterior column of S1 (white arrow), note the widened L5-S1 intervertebral space (blue arrow).Fig 2: 3D volume rendering of the same CT scan showing the fractured anterior column of S1 (white arrow), note the widened L5-S1 intervertebral space (blue arrow). An associated fracture of the anterosuperior corner of the S1 vertebral body, which remains attached to the fractured disc, was also present. The same fractured disc was herniated, filling posteriorly the epidural space and intervertebral foramen and coming into contact with the right S1 sciatic nerve root (Fig. 3).Fig. 3Sagittal reconstruction of the abdominal enhanced CT scan at the spine level (A, B, C), with a close look view (D, E, F). There is a widening of the L5-S1 lumbosacral joint (white dotted arrow), the bulky fractured disc (white arrow), associated with an anterior and presacral hematoma (curved arrow), and the bone fragment from the anterior column of the first sacral body still in contact with the fractured disc (black arrow). If we look closely, the fractured disc is also herniated posteriorly to the epidural space (black dashed arrow).Fig 3: Sagittal reconstruction of the abdominal enhanced CT scan at the spine level (A, B, C), with a close look view (D, E, F). There is a widening of the L5-S1 lumbosacral joint (white dotted arrow), the bulky fractured disc (white arrow), associated with an anterior and presacral hematoma (curved arrow), and the bone fragment from the anterior column of the first sacral body still in contact with the fractured disc (black arrow). If we look closely, the fractured disc is also herniated posteriorly to the epidural space (black dashed arrow). A complementary MRI of the spine was performed to assess any further ligamentous injury and for a better analysis of the disc, soft tissue, vascular injury, and ligamentous injury. The MRI was performed in 1.5Tesla, with the following sequences: Sagittal weighted images in T1 SE (Spin echo), STIR (Short Tau Inversion Recovery), T2 GRE (gradient echo), and 3D T2 Space. The MRI demonstrated:-A widened space between L5 and S1, with the L5-S1 intervertebral disc completely separated from the upper endplate of the S1 vertebral body. The intervertebral disc at this level appears swollen with irregular borders, and there are linear and patchy areas of high signal intensity on the T2-weighted images, indicative of a fracture associated with disc contusion (Figs. 4, 5)Fig. 4T1, STIR, and T2 weighted images on sagittal view of an MRI of the lumbar spine, showing a hyperextension lesion of the lumbosacral junction. There is a widening of the L5-S1 intervertebral space (the disc (straight arrow) has lost complete contact with the first sacral vertebrae). The trauma was responsible for presacral hematoma (curved arrow). Note the disruption of the anterior and posterior longitudinal ligament (black arrow).Fig. 4:Fig. 5A close look at sagittal STIR weighted images at 2 levels showing the swollen disc (white arrow) with linear and patchy hyperintensities (star) related to the fracture and contusion. Note the disruption of the anterior (dotted with arrow) and posterior (black arrow) longitudinal ligament.Fig. 5:-Posteriorly, the disc protrudes into the anterior epidural space, with a reduction of the lumbar canal at this level and comes into contact with the right S1 nerve root (Fig. 6).Fig. 6Axial and sagittal T2 weighted images of the fractured disc (dotted arrow). Note the irregular borders of the disc with hyperintensities (star) related to the fracture–contusion. The disc protrudes posteriorly into the epidural space with a reduced lumbar canal (white arrow).Fig. 6:-For the assessment of ligamentous injuries, there was a complete tear of the anterior longitudinal ligament, resulting in a 9.7 mm diastasis, as well as a tear of the posterior longitudinal ligament, causing a 4 mm diastasis (Fig. 5).-The vertebral body of S1 had a normal height with a slight T1 hypo intensity and T2 hyperintensity in the upper endplate related to bone edema, with cortical interruption at its anterosuperior corner (Fig. 4, Fig. 5, Fig. 6)-The presacral hematoma previously described on the CT scan showed a heterogenous T2 and STIR hyperintensity with areas of low signal intensity on the T2 GE weighted sequence (Fig. 4)-The integrity of the posterior column and the ligament flava. A widened space between L5 and S1, with the L5-S1 intervertebral disc completely separated from the upper endplate of the S1 vertebral body. The intervertebral disc at this level appears swollen with irregular borders, and there are linear and patchy areas of high signal intensity on the T2-weighted images, indicative of a fracture associated with disc contusion (Figs. 4, 5)Fig. 4T1, STIR, and T2 weighted images on sagittal view of an MRI of the lumbar spine, showing a hyperextension lesion of the lumbosacral junction. There is a widening of the L5-S1 intervertebral space (the disc (straight arrow) has lost complete contact with the first sacral vertebrae). The trauma was responsible for presacral hematoma (curved arrow). Note the disruption of the anterior and posterior longitudinal ligament (black arrow).Fig. 4:Fig. 5A close look at sagittal STIR weighted images at 2 levels showing the swollen disc (white arrow) with linear and patchy hyperintensities (star) related to the fracture and contusion. Note the disruption of the anterior (dotted with arrow) and posterior (black arrow) longitudinal ligament.Fig. 5: T1, STIR, and T2 weighted images on sagittal view of an MRI of the lumbar spine, showing a hyperextension lesion of the lumbosacral junction. There is a widening of the L5-S1 intervertebral space (the disc (straight arrow) has lost complete contact with the first sacral vertebrae). The trauma was responsible for presacral hematoma (curved arrow). Note the disruption of the anterior and posterior longitudinal ligament (black arrow). A close look at sagittal STIR weighted images at 2 levels showing the swollen disc (white arrow) with linear and patchy hyperintensities (star) related to the fracture and contusion. Note the disruption of the anterior (dotted with arrow) and posterior (black arrow) longitudinal ligament. Posteriorly, the disc protrudes into the anterior epidural space, with a reduction of the lumbar canal at this level and comes into contact with the right S1 nerve root (Fig. 6).Fig. 6Axial and sagittal T2 weighted images of the fractured disc (dotted arrow). Note the irregular borders of the disc with hyperintensities (star) related to the fracture–contusion. The disc protrudes posteriorly into the epidural space with a reduced lumbar canal (white arrow).Fig. 6: Axial and sagittal T2 weighted images of the fractured disc (dotted arrow). Note the irregular borders of the disc with hyperintensities (star) related to the fracture–contusion. The disc protrudes posteriorly into the epidural space with a reduced lumbar canal (white arrow). For the assessment of ligamentous injuries, there was a complete tear of the anterior longitudinal ligament, resulting in a 9.7 mm diastasis, as well as a tear of the posterior longitudinal ligament, causing a 4 mm diastasis (Fig. 5). The vertebral body of S1 had a normal height with a slight T1 hypo intensity and T2 hyperintensity in the upper endplate related to bone edema, with cortical interruption at its anterosuperior corner (Fig. 4, Fig. 5, Fig. 6) The presacral hematoma previously described on the CT scan showed a heterogenous T2 and STIR hyperintensity with areas of low signal intensity on the T2 GE weighted sequence (Fig. 4) The integrity of the posterior column and the ligament flava. Overall, the patient suffered from a fractured disc associated with ligamentous injuries of the anterior and middle spine column, and a retroperitoneal hematoma. This description can be related to a hyperextension mechanism that can be classified as type B3 of the AO classification system. She was immediately addressed to the neurosurgical department for complete treatment. Unfortunately, the patient refused treatment in our facility for personal reasons and was transferred, against medical advice, to another facility of her choice.