(Case 1) A patient in his 60s presented with progressive gait disturbance, and an MRI revealed a spinal vascular lesion. CTA with sublingual NTG administration revealed an SDAVF supplied by the right seventh intercostal artery and an AKA branching from the left ninth intercostal artery. A chronic descending aortic dissection was identified on CTA, but spinal angiography was not performed. The patient was successfully managed with direct surgical disconnection of the SDAVF, and his symptoms improved. (Case 2) A patient in his 60s presented with progressive bilateral lower-limb numbness, and a thoracic SDAVF was diagnosed using MRI. CTA without NTG administration failed to identify the AKA, but after the administration of NTG, a clear depiction of the AKA branching from the left 10th intercostal artery was obtained. Endovascular shunt occlusion was successfully performed via the right 10th intercostal artery, resulting in significant symptom improvement. Patients who underwent CTA at our facility were administered 0.3 mg of NTG sublingually approximately 5 min prior to the examination. No patients exhibited hypotension before drug administration. Eighty-kV CTA was performed using a 192-section dual-source CT scanner (Somatom Force; Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). The dual-power scan mode was applied with the following parameters: 192 × 0.6 mm detector configuration, 0.5 s per rotation, 0.6 pitch, quality reference 350 mAs (Care Dose 4D; Siemens), and reference 120 kV (CARE kV; Siemens). The scanning was extended from the level of the first thoracic vertebra to that of the fifth sacral vertebra. The imaging method for contrast-enhanced CT is as follows: 135 mL of high-osmolarity iodinated contrast medium (Iomeprol 350; Bracco Japan, Tokyo, Japan) was injected at a rate of 4.5 mL/s, followed by a 50 mL saline chaser via a 20-gauge intravenous catheter placed in an antecubital vein using a double-head power injector. The bolus-tracking method was employed to determine the timing of image acquisition. A circular region of interest was placed in the descending aorta at the level of the first lumbar vertebra. After 10 s, attenuation in the aorta increased by 150 Hounsfield units, and scanning was automatically initiated in the craniocaudal direction. Scanning was performed during a single breath hold. Images were reconstructed with a 0.6-mm slice thickness, a 512 × 512 matrix, a 200-mm display field of view, and kernels Bf36 and Br59 using an iterative reconstruction algorithm (Advanced Modeled Iterative Reconstruction [ADMIRE]; Siemens) in the standard setting. The AKA was identified using a 3D image analysis workstation (Ziostation 2, version 2.3.4.0; Ziosoft, Tokyo, Japan). The details of the CTA imaging acquisition performed at the previous institution for Case 2 are as follows: Eighty-kV CTA was performed on a 192-section dual-source CT scanner (Aquilion One GS; Canon Medical Systems, Tochigi, Japan). Dual-power scan mode was applied with the following parameters: 80 × 0.5 mm detector configuration, 0.5 s per rotation, 0.813 pitch, and reference 120 kV (CARE kV; Siemens). The imaging method for contrast-enhanced CT is as follows: 100 mL of high-osmolarity iodinated contrast medium (Lopamiron 370; Bayer, Leverkusen, Germany) was injected at a rate of 4.0 mL/s, followed by a 40 mL saline chaser. The bolus-tracking method was the same as the protocol of our institution. Images were reconstructed with a 0.5-mm slice thickness, a 512 × 512 matrix, a 200-mm display field of view (FOV), and kernel Fc13 using an iterative reconstruction algorithm (Adaptive Iterative Dose Reduction 3D; Canon Medical Systems) at the standard setting. A patient in his 60s presented to our hospital with a 2-year history of bilateral lower-limb numbness, gait disturbance for the past 3 months, and recent onset of bladder and rectal dysfunction. MRI demonstrated hyperintense signal lesions at the level of Th7–Th12, and multiple vascular flow voids were noted on T2-weighted images (Fig. 1A). The patient had a history of aortic dissection surgery, and preoperative CTA revealed chronic descending aortic dissection. CTA with 0.3 mg NTG sublingual administration revealed SDAVF supplied by the right seventh intercostal artery and AKA branching from the left ninth intercostal artery (Fig. 1B–1E). The feeder of the shunt was presumed to be the left seventh intercostal artery; however, the exact shunt point could not be clearly identified (Fig. 1E). The AKA was not visualized in the volume rendering (VR) or maximum intensity projection (MIP) images of the CTA. The patient underwent resection of the lower half of the spinous process of Th6, laminectomy of Th7 and Th8, and microsurgical disconnection of the SDAVF. Although urinary dysfunction persisted, the symptoms gradually improved. The patient was transferred to a rehabilitation hospital 5 weeks after surgery. A patient in his 60s presented to another hospital with progressive bilateral lower-limb numbness. MRI revealed a hyperintense signal lesion in the thoracic spinal cord below Th6 on T2-weighted images, with some vascular flow voids observed on constructive interference in steady-state (CISS) images (Fig. 2A and 2B). Although CTA without NTG administration did not depict the AKA, elongated and dilated spinal veins were identified (Fig. 2C). The patient was then referred to our hospital for further treatment. CTA with 0.3 mg NTG sublingual administration clearly depicted AKA branching from the left 10th intercostal artery (Fig. 2D–2F), which was consistent with the findings of spinal angiography (Fig. 2I). A feeder from the right 10th intercostal artery was presumed to be involved in the shunt; however, as in Case 1, the exact shunt point could not be clearly identified (Fig. 2G and 2H). Similar to Case 1, the AKA was not clearly visualized on the VR or MIP images of the CTA. Subsequently, the patient underwent endovascular shunt occlusion via the right 10th intercostal artery. The SDAVF was successfully occluded with N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate (Fig. 2J and 2K). Numbness in the lower limbs significantly improved postoperatively, and no complications related to embolization were observed. The patient was transferred to a rehabilitation hospital on the eighth day after surgery.