A 49-year-old female presented to the outpatient clinic with low back pain radiating to her bilateral lower limb, predominantly at L4-L5 dermatomal level. No history of injury, fever, or other systemic conditions was reported. Vital signs were within normal limits, but there was a positive straight leg test. On motor examination of both lower limbs, muscle strength was graded 5/5, reflexes were intact, and there was no evidence of spasticity or increased tone. The laboratory investigations & electrolytes (Table 1) did not indicate any abnormal parameters that could account for the underlying cause of the low back pain. Laboratory investigations for low back pain. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine revealed degenerative changes, including multilevel disc desiccation and a diffuse symmetric disc bulge at L4-L5 causing minimal spinal canal narrowing and mild bilateral neural foraminal narrowing with mild compression of bilateral exiting nerve root. An unusual finding of focal T1 and T2 hyperintensity was observed on the anterior aspect of the L4-L5 intervertebral disc, which appeared hypointense on fat-suppressed sequences (Fig. 1 and Fig. 2), suggesting focal fatty degeneration/infiltration within the disc. Sagittal T1W (A), T1FS (B), T2W (C), and T2FS (D) images of the patient revealing focal T1 and T2 hyperintensity in anterior aspect of the L4-L5 disc showing loss of signal and hypointensity in corresponding fat-saturated sequences suggesting fatty degeneration (arrows). Axial T1W (A), T1FS (B), T2W (C) and T2FS (D) images at L4-L5 level revealing disc bulge at L4-L5 causing spinal canal stenosis and bilateral neural foramen compromise with focal T1 and T2 hyperintensity in anterior aspect of the L4-L5 disc showing loss of signal and hypointensity in corresponding fat-saturated sequences suggesting fatty degeneration (arrows). The patient was given analgesics, pregabalin, and methylcobalamin, along with a 3-week physiotherapy regimen. Back strengthening exercises were also advised as part of the treatment plan. A follow-up appointment was scheduled for 6 weeks, but due to lack of significant improvement, the same treatment was extended for another 6 weeks. At the 3-month follow-up, the patient reported minimal symptom relief. Consequently, surgical treatment was recommended, but the patient chose not to proceed with this option.