A 74-year-old, male patient presented with a six-month history of lower-extremity numbness and pain. Initially, numbness developed in the bilateral thighs, and then gradually deteriorated over the following two months until walking was sufficient to trigger pain in the lower extremities. The pain radiated from the thighs to the calves, thus forcing him to stop walking after only 100 m (328 feet), but the pain subsided after a few minutes of rest. The symptoms occurred while walking but not while standing or sitting, and significantly improved when the patient leaned forward, as when pushing a shopping cart. His medical history included hypertension, dyslipidemia, and Stanford type B aortic dissection, which had been treated conservatively. At his routine health check-up approximately 10 months prior to his current presentation, his hemoglobin level was 14.3 g/dL. On presentation, he had a temperature of 36.0°C (96.8°F), heart rate of 60 beats per minute, and blood pressure of 153/67 mmHg. Physical examination revealed a conjunctival pallor and cyanosis. The pulse of the dorsalis pedis was palpable and normal. Laboratory tests demonstrated hemoglobin 5.1 g/dL (normal: 11.6-14.6), hematocrit 19.6% (normal: 35.1-44.4), mean cell volume 65.1 fL (normal: 83.6-98.2), serum iron ＜10 μg/dL (normal: 50-200), and ferritin 1.9 ng/mL (normal: 3.6-114.0). Transferrin saturation could not be calculated because the serum iron level was below the lower limit of measurement, thus indicating iron deficiency anemia (IDA). His ankle-brachial index was normal (0.95/1.22). Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed no arterial occlusion from the aorta to the toes and confirmed that chronic aortic dissection did not affect blood flow to the spinal arteries or the lower limb arteries. Lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) ruled out lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). The patient was admitted for red blood cell transfusion and iron supplementation. By hospital day 3, his hemoglobin level had improved to 7.7 g/dL, thus leading to the complete resolution of his intermittent claudication (Figure). Further investigation revealed that the presumptive cause of IDA was early stage colon cancer, which was treated with endoscopic mucosal resection. His anemia was well managed thereafter, and intermittent claudication did not recur. Clinical course of the patient. The patient’s clinical course is shown, thus indicating that although his hemoglobin concentration was 14.3 g/dL during a routine health check-up approximately 10 months before his visit, intermittent claudication developed with the onset of anemia. This symptom resolved after correcting the anemia. RBCs: red blood cells, Us: units, Hb: hemoglobin