A 75-year-old man with several previous lumbar spine surgeries, including posterior instrumented fusion at L3–S1, presented with a 5-week history of progressive bilateral lower extremity weakness. Lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) revealed a large, calcified intraspinal mass in the right paracentral region at L2–L3, adjacent to the prior surgical levels. It resulted in severe narrowing of the right lateral recess. This lesion was new when compared to the lumbar spine MRI performed 6 months prior. The lesion was surgically resected without complications, and the pathology revealed a degenerating disc with bone fragments and calcifications. A 75-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, alcohol abuse, neurogenic bladder, and hepatitis C virus with cirrhosis presented to our institution with a 5-week history of worsening bilateral lower extremity weakness and fatigue as well as radiating pain into both (right greater than left) anterior thighs. There was no recent history of trauma or infection. He had a history of multiple spine surgeries over a 9-year period prior to his presentation, including L4–S1 posterior decompression, L4–S1 anterior lumbar interbody fusion, L5–S1 posterior instrumented fusion, and left L3–L4 hemilaminectomies with resection of an extruded disc. His most recent surgery was a re-do left L3–L4 hemilaminectomy with extension of his prior L4–S1 fusion construct up to L3, which was performed approximately 1 year prior to the presentation. The neurological examination revealed mild weakness in right hip flexion as well as decreased sensation in the left anterior thigh. Labs were notable for elevated glucose of 130 mg/dL. Other labs including the complete blood count and sedimentation rate were normal. Vital signs showed elevated blood pressure of 154/88 mmHg but were otherwise normal. A lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) without contrast demonstrated a large, right paracentral, intraspinal lesion at the L2–L3 level, adjacent to the posteriorly fused levels (Figure 1A). The lesion was T1 intermediate and T2 hypointense. It resulted in severe narrowing of the right lateral recess and overall moderate spinal canal stenosis at L2–L3. There was associated crowding of the cauda equina nerve roots and partial effacement of the cerebrospinal fluid spaces at this level. A computed tomography (CT) of the lumbar spine without contrast demonstrated that the lesion contained amorphous, cloudlike hyperdensities internally (mean Hounsfield unit: 418), suggestive of calcification (Figure 1B). The leading differential consideration was a giant, calcified, right paracentral disc extrusion. The finding was new when compared to the lumbar spine MRI obtained 6 months prior where there was a bulging disc but no disc extrusion (Figure 2A). A comparison lumbar spine CT from 13 months prior demonstrated no pre-existing intervertebral disc calcification at L2–L3 (Figure 2B). MRI and CT of the lumbar spine at the time of most recent clinical presentation. (A) Noncontrast MRI of the lumbar spine with T1-weighted (left panel), sagittal T2-weighted (middle panel), and axial T2-weighted (right panel) sequences demonstrates a large right paracentral lesion at the L2–L3 level (yellow arrow), which is T1 intermediate and T2 hypointense, with moderate spinal canal stenosis. The dotted line on the sagittal T2-weighted sequence (middle panel) denotes the level corresponding to the axial T2-weighted sequence (right panel). Artifact from the prior posterior hardware from L3–S1 and anterior hardware from L4–S1 can be seen. On axial T2-weighted sequence (right panel), the lesion effaces the right lateral recess and exerts mass effect on the descending right L3 nerve root. (B) Noncontrast CT of the lumbar spine with sagittal (left panel) and axial (right panel) views shows that the lesion is diffusely hyperdense with ill-defined internal calcifications. CT, computed tomography; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. Prior MRI and CT lumbar spine examinations. (A) On comparison sagittal and axial MRI images from 6 months prior, the L2–L3 lesion was not visualized. A small broad-based disc bulge was noted, with mild spinal canal stenosis. (B) Noncontrast CT images from 13 months prior also did not show the calcified lesion or any underlying intervertebral disc calcification at L2–L3. CT, computed tomography; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. Subsequently, the patient underwent a resection of the lesion with L2–L3 decompressive laminectomies and medial facetectomies as well as extension of the posterior instrumented fusion to L1–S1. The patient’s prior midline incision was reopened and extended to the level of T12. L1 and L2 lamina were exposed, and the dissection was carried inferiorly to expose and remove the prior L3–S1 rods. Bilateral pedicle screws at L1 and L2 were placed. Laminectomy at L2–L3 with medial facetectomy on the right were performed. The medial facetectomy at L2–L3 was extended inferiorly towards the right L3–L4 level to facilitate further decompression of the right L2–L3 lateral recess and the thecal sac adjacent to the location of the right extradural intraspinal lesion. There was a great deal of scar tissue densely adherent to the thecal sac in this area, which was carefully debulked and resected until the thecal sac could be gently mobilized. A large extradural lesion was identified, severely compressing the right thecal sac and the right L3 nerve root, both of which were carefully dissected away from the lesion. Grossly, the lesion was yellowish in color and firm. The capsule of the lesion was opened, expressing a wax-like material within. The lesion was initially centrally debulked, and the specimen was sent for frozen pathology, which revealed a preliminary intraoperative diagnosis of diffuse calcifications with no evidence of neoplasm. Nearly all of the lesion was then further resected, with the exception of a portion of the outermost capsule, which was densely adherent to the ventral portion of the thecal sac and the right L3 nerve root. It was determined that it was not necessary to further dissect and resect the remaining capsule because of the high risk of nerve injury and cerebrospinal fluid leak posed by its dense adherence, and the fact that the thecal sac and L3 nerve root were now well decompressed. Furthermore, the lesion itself showed no evidence of a tumor on intraoperative pathology. Lordotic rods were then placed and secured to connect the pedicle screws from L1 to S1 bilaterally, and the previous posterolateral arthrodesis was extended to L2–L3 and L1–L2 bilaterally. Intraoperative neuromonitoring of sensory and motor evoked potentials were utilized and remained stable throughout the case. The specimen submitted to pathology consisted of multiple tissue fragments measuring 1.0 cm × 0.5 cm × 0.3 cm in aggregate. Histologic sections showed predominantly acellular amorphous material with admixed calcified fragments of fibrocartilage and bone (Figure 3). This was considered to be degenerating disc material with diffuse calcification, confirming the diagnosis of a giant, calcified, lumbar disc herniation. Post-operatively, the patient’s pain and gait improved, and he was discharged to a subacute nursing facility on post-operative day 9. On his follow-up visit to Neurosurgery Clinic approximately 3 weeks after the surgery, he reported that compared to before the operation, he was feeling stronger in his legs and that his proximal leg pain had decreased. He denied back pain, and he no longer heard a popping sound when he moved his back. Subsequent follow-up assessment at 4 months post-surgery showed the patient no longer had any of his pre-operative lower back pain or bilateral leg pain. His right hip flexor strength had improved, and he felt that his overall strength and walking had improved compared to pre-surgery, including the ability to walk up the stairs. Histologic review of the surgical specimen. (A) Low power view of disc herniation specimen shows irregular calcified/ossified fragments (arrow) in an amorphous matrix. (B,C) Higher magnification images demonstrate bone fragments (arrow) (B) and degenerating fibrocartilage (C). Hematoxylin and eosin stain. Original magnifications: A, 20×; B,C: 100×. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments. A written informed consent was deemed not to be required by the local institutional review boards because this is a case report that involved no identifiable personal information.