We present a 21-year-old nonambulatory male with spastic, dystonic cerebral palsy, neuromuscular rotatory kyphoscoliosis, and spinal fusion who was nonrespondent to intrathecal baclofen bolus test dose of 100 μg. Severe spinal rotation and a large fusion mass made open and radiofrequency ablation approaches infeasible; we performed a 233-minute endoscopic VDR using flexible neuroendoscopy, mechanical nerve stimulation with free running electromyography, fluoroscopy, and bugbee electrocautery. Lessons learned include visualization, root selection, and extent of ablation. Postoperative modified Ashworth Scale was reduced to 0 in all muscle groups, and physical examination video shows improved sitting position with neutral spinal alignment and enhanced sitting balance. A gross motor function classification score V, 21-year-old manwith spastic, dystonic quadriplegic cerebral palsy, global developmental delay, Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome, gastrostomy, and neuromuscular scoliosis with thoracic 3 (T3) to pelvis posterior instrumented fusion presented to clinic. His mixed medically refractory hypertonia (MRH) presents as modified Ashworth Scale 4 in all muscle groups of his bilateral upper and lower extremities. Family declined further ITB therapy after an ineffective 100 μg bolus test dose. We discussed open VDR, RFA VDR, and endoscopic VDR and their limitations. Thoracic and lumbosacral spine computed tomography demonstrated rotational spine deformity and spinal hardware obviating any approach besides endoscopic VDR. The patient and family were counseled on the risks of surgery, highlighting the novel approach and associated rationale. The patient consented to the procedure. The patient and any other participants consented to the use of their images. Institutional review board approval was not required. The patient was positioned prone on gel rolls, pressure points padded, and he received preoperative antibiotics. Intramuscular needle electrodes were placed in bilateral iliopsoas, vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, biceps femoris, tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius medialis, peroneus longus, abductor hallucis, and anal sphincter muscles for electromyography (EMG) monitoring. We opened a ∼6 cm midline incision along the prior fusion scar and performed a bilateral paraspinal dissection at the level of L3 centered at the spinous process. The surgical corridor was drilled using a 5 mm fluted and then 5 mm diamond ball. Intact ligamentum flavum was resected with a Kerrison punch, and bone wax occluded venous channels. A 2 cm durotomy was made, and the dural edges retracted using 4-0 Nurolon. The flexible neuroendoscope (Karl Storz) was introduced with continuous irrigation to promote visualization. Mechanical endoscopic manipulation of nerve roots elicited free running EMG in a correlative myotome; ambiguous electrophysiology required root confirmation using fluoroscopy. Identified L1-S1 mixed nerve roots were thermally injured using the bugbee electrocautery set to 10 for approximately 5 to 10 seconds. We estimated extent of ablation (EoA) volumetrically by tracking ablation-associated color change across 80% to 90% of the nerve. Once complete, we closed dura with running 5-0 goretex, tisseal, and gelfoam. We placed intrawound vancomycin powder followed by a typical layered closure. The patient tolerated the procedure well, was extubated postoperatively, and taken to the postanesthesia care unit for further monitoring. Total case duration was 233 minutes, and estimated blood loss was ∼5 mL. The surgical procedure was captured through intraoperative and endoscopic video and is supplemented with preoperative and postoperative physical examination video (video). All participants in the video consented to the use of their images. The patient remained admitted for a total of 5 postoperative days. His bilateral lower extremity tone improved immediately to modified Ashworth Scale 0-1, which was sustained at 5 months of follow-up. His ventilation and oxygenation were optimized with respiratory hygiene therapies, and he discharged to a rehabilitation facility on postoperative day 5. No postoperative urinary retention was noted, and catheter reinsertions were not required. He was briefly readmitted for atelectasis; he did not suffer surgical complications.