A 53-year-old male patient presented to the outpatient clinic with complaints of progressive loss of sphincter control. The patient reported a congenital dorsal lumbosacral swelling (Fig. 1) and had undergone partial resection of a superficial lipoma at the age of 7 at an outside institution.Fig. 1Lumbar spine MRI—preoperative evaluation Lumbar spine MRI—preoperative evaluation At age 20, he developed chronic, non-healing ulcerative lesions on the left foot, associated with recurrent episodes of osteomyelitis. This led to multiple staged amputations, culminating in left lower limb amputation at age 27. Similar lesions appeared on the right foot, resulting in toe amputations at age 49, also secondary to chronic osteomyelitis. The patient denied any history of diabetes mellitus or tobacco use. Despite these comorbidities, the patient remained ambulatory and functionally independent, using a prosthesis on the left leg. Nine months prior to presentation, he developed urinary retention and episodes of overflow incontinence. Urodynamic studies revealed a neurogenic bladder with diminished detrusor muscle contractile function. Intermittent bladder catheterization was initiated six times daily. In the subsequent months, he experienced worsening symptoms, including lumbar pain, fecal incontinence, and sexual dysfunction. CT scan of the lumbosacral spine demonstrated posterior bone defects at L4-S1 vertebrae (Fig. 2).Fig. 2Surgical resection of the lipomeningocele Surgical resection of the lipomeningocele Lumbar spine MRI revealed a large, heterogeneous lipomatous mass with intra and extradural components, causing compression of the neural elements. MRI of the entire neuroaxis demonstrated no other abnormalities (Fig. 2). The patient underwent microsurgical treatment, consisting of near-total resection of the intradural lipoma. The procedure involved complete detachment of the lipoma and neural placode from the dura, pia-to-pia dorsal neurulation with microsutures, and expansile duraplasty using durapatch (Fig. 3).Fig. 3Lumbar spine MRI—postoperative evaluation Lumbar spine MRI—postoperative evaluation The patient had an uneventful postoperative recovery. No cerebrospinal fluid leakage, wound complications, or neurological deterioration were observed. Postoperative MRI of the lumbar spine demonstrated extensive resection of the lesion with residual lipomatous components (Fig. 3). At 1-month follow-up, he revealed significant clinical improvement, including the return of spontaneous diuresis with reduced need for intermittent catheterization, resolution of preoperative burning neuropathic pain, and improvement in sexual function. He continues in regular outpatient follow-up, with stable neurological status and no evidence of recurrent complications.