A 58-year-old male with a long-standing history of poorly controlled type two diabetes mellitus presented with a two-day history of confusion, fatigue, and fall. He was febrile and tachycardic, and had laboratory findings consistent with diabetic ketoacidosis. Despite initial broad-spectrum antimicrobials, he deteriorated neurologically, prompting intubation. Lumbar puncture yielded frankly purulent cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), and both blood and CSF cultures grew Klebsiella pneumoniae sensitive to Ceftriaxone. Brain imaging revealed leptomeningeal inflammation, ventriculitis, and non-occlusive thrombi of the right internal jugular vein and superior sagittal sinus. A liver abscess was also discovered, a finding commonly reported with hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae infections. Anticoagulation was initiated while balancing the risk of intracranial hemorrhage. Despite aggressive critical care measures, repeat imaging demonstrated diffuse cerebral edema with evolving global anoxic injury. A nuclear medicine cerebral perfusion scan showed absent cerebral blood flow, and goals of care were transitioned to comfort measures. The patient passed away shortly thereafter. A 58-year-old male with a history of poorly controlled type two diabetes mellitus (hemoglobin A1C 11.1%), hypertension and dyslipidemia, presented to our emergency department with two days of fatigue, anorexia, and an unwitnessed fall. In the hours before presentation he was confused and combative. There was no recent travel or infectious exposures. Home medications were Empagliflozin, Sitagliptin, Rosuvastatin, Gliclazide and Metformin. In the emergency department, he was found to be febrile (38.7°C), tachycardic (122 beats/minute), and mildly tachypneic (24 breaths/minute); other vital signs were normal. Physical examination was otherwise unremarkable, apart from disorientation and agitation. There was no neck stiffness or focal neurological deficits. Laboratory results are summarized in Supplementary Table 1, abnormalities included leukocytosis and anion-gap metabolic acidosis with elevated ketones and near-normal serum glucose, consistent with euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis. Chest radiography was normal, and electrocardiogram revealed sinus tachycardia. A non-contrast head CT scan was performed in the Emergency Department and reported as normal by the radiologist. Blood cultures, urine culture and nasopharyngeal swab for viruses were obtained. Broad-spectrum antibiotics were initiated within 3 h of hospital presentation with Ceftriaxone, Vancomycin and Ampicillin for empiric coverage of bacterial meningitis, along with Acyclovir for potential viral encephalitis. He received intravenous insulin and fluids to treat euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis and was admitted to the intensive care unit. Approximately 12 h from hospital presentation, he deteriorated neurologically with a sudden decrease in Glasgow Comma Scale (GCS) from 14 to 6 and development of a right dilated pupil. He was emergently intubated and was hemodynamically unstable requiring multiple vasopressor infusions to maintain blood pressure targets. Urgent neuroimaging was obtained. CT angiography and CT perfusion demonstrated global prolongation of time-to-maximum (Tmax) values without large vessel occlusion. Lumbar puncture yielded purulent cerebral spinal fluid, with white blood cells of 78,250 cells/uL (85% neutrophils) and Gram stain revealing Gram-negative rods. Opening pressure measured in the lateral decubitus position was > 50 cm H2O. MRI brain revealed diffuse leptomeningeal enhancement, ventriculitis, and non-occlusive thrombosis of the right internal jugular vein, superior sagittal sinus, and right transverse and sigmoid sinuses, consistent with septic cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (Fig. 1). Neurosurgery consultation for consideration of surgical decompression was obtained but no intervention was offered due to poor candidacy for intervention. Anticoagulation was initiated with intravenous heparin.Fig. 1I. Brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging during admission. (A) Axial T2-Weighted Fluid-Attenuated Inversion Recovery (T2 FLAIR) image demonstrates diffuse hyperintense signal in the sulci and layering hyperintense fluid in the ventricles (arrows) and in keeping with leptomeningitis and ventriculitis, respectively. (B) Axial Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI) image shows diffuse cortical hyperintensity suggestive of hypoxic injury. Axial (C) and coronal (D) post-gadolinium T1-weighted images show non-occlusive thrombosis of the right internal jugular vein, right transverse sinus, and superior sagittal sinus (yellow arrowheads). (E) Maximum Intensity Projection (MIP) of Susceptibility-Weighted Imaging (SWI) shows a diffuse engorgement of cortical veins, suggestive of venous congestion. II. Computed Tomography (CT) and CT Perfusion Imaging. Initial non-contrast CT head (A) at admission shows normal ventricles and sulci. However, there was markedly elevated values throughout the brain parenchyma on CT perfusion time-to-maximum (Tmax) color map (B), in keeping with delayed perfusion. (C) Non-contrast CT head performed three days later demonstrates diffuse brain edema with completely effaced ventricle and sulci. (D) Contrast-enhanced CT chest image shows right lower lobe consolidation with areas of hypoenhancement (arrow), consistent with necrotizing pneumonia. (E) Contrast-enhanced CT abdomen demonstrates an ill-defined hypodense lesion in the right liver (arrow), in keeping with of a small abscess. I. Brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging during admission. (A) Axial T2-Weighted Fluid-Attenuated Inversion Recovery (T2 FLAIR) image demonstrates diffuse hyperintense signal in the sulci and layering hyperintense fluid in the ventricles (arrows) and in keeping with leptomeningitis and ventriculitis, respectively. (B) Axial Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI) image shows diffuse cortical hyperintensity suggestive of hypoxic injury. Axial (C) and coronal (D) post-gadolinium T1-weighted images show non-occlusive thrombosis of the right internal jugular vein, right transverse sinus, and superior sagittal sinus (yellow arrowheads). (E) Maximum Intensity Projection (MIP) of Susceptibility-Weighted Imaging (SWI) shows a diffuse engorgement of cortical veins, suggestive of venous congestion. II. Computed Tomography (CT) and CT Perfusion Imaging. Initial non-contrast CT head (A) at admission shows normal ventricles and sulci. However, there was markedly elevated values throughout the brain parenchyma on CT perfusion time-to-maximum (Tmax) color map (B), in keeping with delayed perfusion. (C) Non-contrast CT head performed three days later demonstrates diffuse brain edema with completely effaced ventricle and sulci. (D) Contrast-enhanced CT chest image shows right lower lobe consolidation with areas of hypoenhancement (arrow), consistent with necrotizing pneumonia. (E) Contrast-enhanced CT abdomen demonstrates an ill-defined hypodense lesion in the right liver (arrow), in keeping with of a small abscess. Due to the rapid clinical deterioration, antibiotics were broadened to meropenem in the event of cephalosporin-resistant Gram-negative organisms. On hospital day 2, blood and CSF cultures resulted with growth of Klebsiella pneumoniae susceptible to beta-lactamase/beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations, cephalosporins, ciprofloxacin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and aminoglycosides. CSF studies for Acid Fast Bacilli, fungi, cryptococcal antigen and viruses were negative. Nasopharyngeal swab for COVID-19 and Influenza was negative. Antimicrobials were rationalized to Ceftriaxone. Infectious Disease specialists were consulted; genetic testing for determinants of hypervirulence was not performed due to the patient’s poor prognosis. On hospital day 3, CT imaging of the chest revealed evidence of necrotizing pneumonia of the right lower lobe without abscess formation. CT imaging of the abdomen revealed a 2.0 × 2.4 × 1.4 cm segment-8 liver lesion suspicious for liver abscess. Drainage of the liver abscess was deferred due to its small size outweighing the risk of the procedure. Metabolic derangements from diabetic ketoacidosis were corrected by hospital day 1. He remained hemodynamically unstable requiring vasopressor support. Neurological examination demonstrated minimally reactive dilated pupils, with absence of other brainstem reflexes and GCS 3 T since hospital day 2. Repeat non-contrast CT and CT perfusion on hospital day 4 and 6 revealed evolving diffuse hypoxic brain injury. A summary of CT imaging results is presented in Fig. 1. On hospital day 6, a nuclear medicine cerebral perfusion scan confirmed absent cerebral blood flow. After a meeting with substitute decision makers, care was transitioned to a palliative approach and life-sustaining therapies were withdrawn.