A 7-year-old girl presented with a noticeable left lumbar prominence and occasional self-correcting trunk shift. Neurological examination revealed no motor, sensory, or reflex deficits. Radiographs confirmed a left L4/L5 semi-segmented HV with a segmental Cobb angle of 32° and compensatory sacral obliquity (Figure 1). (Full-spine radiographs confirmed the presence of 12 thoracic vertebrae and lumbarization of S1, resulting in an additional lumbar segment.) 3-dimensional CT revealed a typical semi-segmented HV (Figure 2). Preoperative MRI showed no intraspinal anomalies, and renal/cardiac ultrasound screenings were normal. Given documented curve progression despite one year of brace treatment, surgical intervention was indicated. Preoperative full-spine standing radiographs. (A) Anteroposterior (AP) view demonstrating CS with a left L4/L5 semi-segmented HV (white arrow), a segmental Cobb angle of 32°, and compensatory sacral obliquity. (Levels L4 and L5 are labeled.) (B) Lateral view showing preserved physiological lumbar lordosis. Preoperative 3D CT reconstructions of the L3/L4 HV (white arrow). (A) Anterior view. (B) Posterior view. (C) Left lateral view. (D) Sagittal cut view. The patient was positioned prone under general anesthesia, with continuous SEP/MEP monitoring. Fluoroscopy-guided localization of the L4/L5 level was performed. A percutaneous needle was inserted into the left L4/L5 HV pedicle as a landmark. Endoscopic viewing and working portals were established 1.5 cm from the midline, approximately 1 cm cranial and caudal to the target pedicle. The coagulation of soft tissues was achieved using a radiofrequency ablator (ARS600, Bangshi Medical; Ablate 7: 220W; Coag 3: 23W). Irrigation was performed with normal saline via a completely open system (bag height 1.8 m). Under endoscopic visualization, the transverse process, superior and inferior articular process, and HV lamina were resected using an ultrasonic bone scalpel. After identifying and protecting the traversing nerve roots along the medial pedicle wall with minimal retraction, the pedicle was drilled and the HV was meticulously segmented using a bone chisel and ultrasonic bone cutter. After obtaining adequate bone blocks for grafting, a burr was used to excise the residual wall. Following this, the adjacent discs were carefully excised down to the bleeding endplates (Figure 3). During this phase, hemostasis and safe retraction of the traversing nerve roots under endoscopic visualization were given paramount attention. Intraoperative views: (A) fluoroscopic image confirming the percutaneous placement of a needle (arrow) into the pedicle of the left L3/L4 HV. (B) Intraoperative photographs showing endoscopic viewing and working portals were established. (C) Endoscopic view showing the workspace. (D) Endoscopic view showing the resection of the transverse process (triangle). (E) Endoscopic view showing the resection of the superior articular process (rectangle). (F) Endoscopic view showing the resection of HV lamina with ultrasonic bone scalpel. (G) Endoscopic view showing the pedicle(circle) after the resection of transverse process, inferior articular process and lamina. (H) Endoscopic view showing the bleeding lower endplate of L3(pentagon) following complete removal of the HV. (I) Fluoroscopic image confirming the accurate placement of the Polyaxial percutaneous pedicle screws. Subsequently, the UBE working and viewing portals were reused as percutaneous entry points for guidewire insertion into the left L4 and L5 pedicles under fluoroscopic guidance. Two additional symmetrical stab incisions (1.5 cm each) were made on the right side for contralateral L4 and L5 guidewire placement. Polyaxial percutaneous pedicle screws (5.0 mm diameter, 35 mm length) were inserted bilaterally based on preoperative CT measurements (pedicle diameter 4.5–5.0 mm, trajectory length 35–40 mm). Throughout the procedure, fluoroscopy was used only for key steps—localizing the L4/L5 level and confirming screw placement—to minimize radiation exposure. Pre-contoured rods were passed subfascially, and gradual compression was applied to close the osteotomy gap. Autologous bone graft obtained from the resected HV was then packed into the residual defect for interbody fusion. Prior to graft placement, hemostasis was meticulously achieved. All four small incisions were closed without drain placement. Total operative time was 210 min with an estimated blood loss of 100 mL (Figure 4). Minimally invasive incisions and immediate postoperative fixation. (A) Postoperative photograph of the lower back, showing four small incision sites. (B) Intraoperative fluoroscopic AP view after instrumentation, demonstrating bilateral percutaneous pedicle screws at L4 and L5, a pre-contoured rod, and closure of the resection gap.