We present a rare case of a 55-year-old woman with achondroplasia who presented with a 5-year history of progressively worsening low back pain, bilateral foot drop, and neurogenic claudication after walking short distances. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated critical lumbar spinal stenosis at L2–L3, L3–L4, and L4–L5. She underwent multilevel laminectomy under general anesthesia with intraoperative fluoroscopic guidance and high magnification. Postoperatively, she was mobilized within 3 hours and discharged the same day without complications. At 4-week follow-up, the muscle strength of the anterior tibialis and quadriceps had improved to 4/5 on the MRC scale, patellar reflexes were normalized, and lower-limb sensation showed marked recovery. A 55-year-old woman with achondroplasia presented to an outpatient clinic with a 5-year history of progressively worsening low back pain and lower-limb weakness. For the past 2 years, she was unable to sleep in a supine position due to discomfort and pain. She had bilateral sensory problems, with numbness along the posterior thighs and anterior aspects of both lower legs. She also had neurogenic claudication in both legs, experiencing pain after walking just 20 meters. The diagnosis of achondroplasia in this patient was established clinically based on characteristic phenotypic features, including short stature, rhizomelic limb shortening, and frontal bossing, and was genetically confirmed in early adulthood as an autosomal dominant FGFR3 mutation. Clinical examination revealed gait disturbance with bilateral foot drop, gradually developing during the last 5 years. The anterior tibialis strength was graded 2/5 on the right and 3/5 on the left according to the Medical Research Council (MRC) scale. In addition, muscle strength of right lower-limb quadriceps was also reduced, graded 2/5 on the MRC scale, in conjunction with diminished patellar reflexes bilaterally, which was 1+ according to the deep tendon reflex (DTR) scale. Sensory examination indicated the presence of hypoesthesia in the right lower limb of L3–L5 dermatomal distribution. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed severe spinal stenosis at L2–L3, L3–L4, and L4–L5. Preoperative MRI evaluation is presented in Figure 1. The presence of bilateral foot drop, significant motor deficits, and neurogenic claudication necessitated surgical management to prevent further neurological deterioration and to restore functional mobility. Unfortunately, data on preoperative progression of the neurologic deficit were incomplete. Surgery was initially postponed due to the complexity of the spinal anatomy and multilevel stenosis. However, after meticulous evaluation at our center and thorough discussion of potential risks and potential benefits of surgery, patient consent was given. Initially, the patient was placed prone under general anesthesia on a radiolucent operating table. As routinely conducted, bolsters were used for support of the chest and pelvis, eliminating abdominal pressure to facilitate venous return. The hips and knees were flexed to maximize interlaminar space dimensions and facilitate decompressions. Due to the skeletal features of this patient, this maneuver was of utmost surgical importance. Subsequently, an incision was planned to include levels of interest under fluoroscopic navigation. A routine posterior approach was then implemented with skin incision, dissection of subcutaneous fat, and meticulous subperiosteal detachment of paravertebral musculature with dissection of L3–L5 laminae bilaterally (Figure 2). The patient underwent laminectomy and neural decompression at the L2–L3, L3–L4, and L4–L5 levels, with subsequent routine wound closure in layers. The patient’s condition improved immediately after the procedure. Mobilization was achieved in 3 hours following the procedure and she was discharged on the same day without any perioperative complications, being advised to walk using a lumbar orthosis and to avoid spinal flexion, extension, lateral bending, and rotation, avoiding weight bearing, and with progressive resumption of her daily routine. At 1-, 2-, and 4-week follow-up visits, she reported an improvement in symptoms and finally could sleep lying flat for the first time in 2 years. Gait and lower-limb strength improved, and overall functional mobility was restored. Furthermore, she was able to walk over 200 meters without experiencing neurogenic claudication. At the final follow-up, the anterior tibialis was graded 4/5 bilaterally and quadriceps strength on the right was also graded 4/5 according to the MRC scale. Patellar reflexes were also restored to 2+, and sensation in the lower limbs had improved on examination. These results were accomplished via an intensive physical therapy program implemented after the first postoperative week, primarily focusing on active muscular strengthening, proprioception, and neural tissue mobilization exercises. She expressed satisfaction with her functional improvement and reported marked relief of pain. Figure 3 shows the patient demonstrating dorsiflexion of the toes, reflecting the recovery of distal motor function postoperatively.