A 2-year-old male entire Labrador Retriever was presented to the Neurology and Neurosurgery department at Dovecote Veterinary Referrals for a 3-week history of progressive pelvic limb dysfunction. General clinical examination was largely unremarkable. Neurological examination revealed ambulatory paraparesis with proprioceptive ataxia, with intact segmental spinal reflexes. The remainder of the neurological examination was normal. A neurolocalization to the T3–L3 spinal cord segments was made. The dog was anesthetized, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the whole vertebral column and brain was performed using a 1.5 Tesla magnetic resonance scanner (Siemens MAGNETOM Sempra, Erlanger, Germany). The following sequences were obtained: T2-weighted (T2W) in the sagittal and transverse planes; short T1 inversion recovery (STIR) in dorsal and transverse planes; T1-weighted (T1W) in transverse planes pre- and post-contrast, and a modified fast 3D T1 gradient-echo sequence thin-slice volumetric interpolated breath-hold examination post-contrast. MRI of the thoracolumbar spine (Figures 1, 2) revealed two intramedullary lesions, one located from the caudal aspect of T8 to the mid aspect of T9 vertebral level, and a second one located at the level of L3–4 vertebrae. The intramedullary lesion within the thoracic area was well-defined, oval, and occupied most of the diameter of the spinal cord. It was homogeneous, hyperintense in T2W, isointense in T1W, and it showed severe and homogeneous contrast enhancement. The second lesion at the L3–L4 vertebrae affected mainly the grey matter, more marked on the left side, and it showed the same signal intensity pattern. There was moderate dilation of the central canal at the level of C7 to T7 vertebrae. Considering the multifocal pattern of the lesions, MRI of the remaining vertebral column and brain was also performed, which appeared unremarkable. MRI study of the thoracolumbar region. Sagittal images [A (T2-weighted), C (T1-weighted), E (T1-weighted post-contrast)] and transverse images [B (T2-weighted), D (T1-weighted), and F (T1-weighted post-contrast)] at the level of the lesion. There is a single, well-defined, intramedullary T2-weighted hyperintense, T1-weighted isointense with homogenous strong contrast uptake lesion (arrows), affecting almost 90% of the diameter of the spinal cord at the level of T8–T9 vertebrae. MRI study of the lumbar region. Sagittal image [A (T2-weighted) and transverse images, B (T2-weighted), C (T1-weighted), D (T1-weighted post-contrast)]. The lesion is circled in the sagittal image, in the transverse images there are bilateral lesions, well-defined, intramedullary T2-weighted hyperintense, T1-weighted isointense with homogenous strong contrast uptake (arrows), affecting mainly the grey matter, more marked on the left side at the level of L3–L4 vertebrae. The main differential diagnosis for multiple intramedullary lesions included neoplasia, such as lymphoma or glioma. The second lesion affecting grey matter could also be compatible with an ischemic myelopathy, which could also be secondary to neoplasia. Serum biochemistry revealed an increased creatinine kinase 1,985 U/L (reference range 20–230), and hematology was unremarkable. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis obtained via lumbar puncture revealed mild mononuclear pleocytosis with a total nucleated cell count of 6 cells/μL (normal <5 cells/μL) and increased protein of 214.9 mg/dL (normal <45 mg/dL). Neospora caninum antibodies serum levels and Cryptococcus antigen tests were negative. Initially medical management was attempted with meloxicam 0.1 mg/kg SID PO and clindamycin 12.5 mg/kg BID PO, whilst awaiting laboratory results. The dog’s clinical signs progressed, and the dog became non-ambulatory paraparetic within 4 days. Exploratory surgery for biopsy or possible resection of the thoracolumbar mass was offered. Surgery was performed by means of a right-sided T7–T9 hemilaminectomy and durotomy. The spinal cord was visibly enlarged in the region corresponding to the mass. Following durotomy, the mass had a mildly harder consistency than spinal parenchyma and adhered to normal parenchyma, particularly in its ventral portion. There was no apparent connection of the mass to the dura mater. The mass was focal, cauliflower-shaped, white colored, and not dissimilar but slightly darker than the normal spinal cord parenchyma. The majority of the affected tissue evident macroscopically, was removed, although it was strongly adhered to the spinal cord parenchyma, and resection was only possible by sharp dissection. The obtained tissue samples were sent for histopathological analysis. The dog recovered uneventfully from anesthesia and remained hospitalized, having received methadone (0.3 mg/kg) IV q4h, gabapentin 11 mg/kg PO q8h, and methylprednisolone 0.1 mg/kg IV. Following surgery, the patient became paraplegic without nociception. Initial histopathology of the T7–T9 mass lesion revealed the presence of a markedly infiltrative malignant proliferation, suggesting neoplasia, consisting mainly of spindle cells, effacing a significant portion of the spinal cord, although the cell of origin remained uncertain. Following 4 days of hospitalization, considering the initial histopathology findings indicating a poor prognosis, the owner opted for euthanasia, with a necropsy being performed. The brain and entire spinal cord were collected at necropsy and trimmed after fixation in 10% buffered formalin. On macroscopic examination, at the level of the cervicothoracic intumescence, thoracic and lumbar spinal cord, there were multifocal, grey discolored areas which appear to arise within the subdural space and from the nerve roots and multifocally, variably infiltrate and distort the spinal neuroparenchyma, accompanied by multifocal subdural hemorrhage (Figure 3). (A) Cervicothoracic intumescence. Multifocal grey discolored areas arising within the subdural space and variably infiltrating and distorting the neuroparenchyma. (B) Thoracic and lumbar spinal cord. Multifocal grey discolored areas arising within the subdural space/nerve roots and variably infiltrating and distorting the neuroparenchyma. Histopathology of the whole spinal cord revealed prominent pathological changes involving various segments of the spinal cord (Figure 4). The lesions consisted of multifocal to coalescing proliferations of leptomeningeal and meningovascular structures, which variably effaced the white and grey matter of the cervicothoracic, thoracic, thoracolumbar, and lumbar segments of the spinal cord. Based on the histopathological findings, the lesions were consistent with multifocal to coalescing meningioangiomatosis. Gross and histopathological examination of the brain was unremarkable. (A) Lumbar spinal cord. A plaque-like proliferation of spindle cells arranged in bundles and whorls around numerous, proliferating small to medium caliber vessels supported by variable amounts of loosely arranged fibrillar stroma is observed within the ventral leptomeninges (cycled), entrapping and expanding multiple nerve roots (NR), and multifocally infiltrating and expanding the Virchow–Robin spaces within the adjacent ventral funiculi and spinal grey matter (asterisks). H&E, 2.5×. (B) Cervicothoracic intumescence, grey matter. Multifocal proliferation of spindle-shaped to irregularly polygonal cells arranged in bundles and whorls around numerous, proliferating small to medium caliber vessels (asterisks). Multifocal necrotic neurons within the affected area (circled). H&E, 10×.