A white male patient in his 40s presented with chronic lumbar radiculopathy characterized by persistent radiating low back pain in a dermatomal distribution. Clinical history indicated that patient had pain for over six months and faced progression of symptoms, along with physical constrains, heavy lifting. Different treatments, including analgesics, and physiotherapy were used, however treatments were found refractory. Meanwhile, the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified the underlying cause, which was the persistent compression and inflammation of a spinal nerve root in the lower back. Before proceeding further, informed consent was obtained from the patient. The patient’s baseline pain score was a 7/10 according to NRS (0 indicates no pain, 1-3 indicates mild pain, 4-6 indicates moderate pain, 7-10 indicates severe pain) and had several functional limitations, including limited sleep duration (four hours), standing tolerance (10 minutes), and walking tolerance (five minutes). The patient identified three primary therapy goals: improving sleep duration beyond four hours, increasing standing tolerance beyond 10 minutes, and increasing walking tolerance beyond five minutes (Figure 1). (0 indicates no pain, 1-3 indicates mild pain, 4-6 indicates moderate pain, 7-10 indicates severe pain). The image is created by the authors. The patient elected to undergo an SCS trial, as it stimulates the gamma-aminobutyric acid release and reduces the production of glutamate, which is helpful in the reduction of pain. A Saluda Medical ECAP-controlled closed-loop SCS system (Evoke® System, Saluda Medical Pty Ltd, Artarmon, New South Wales, Australia) was implanted using a single 12-electrode lead positioned at the superior aspect of the T7 vertebral level. This was done to achieve optimal dorsal column coverage of the lumbosacral dermatomes through rostrocaudal current spread, a strategy commonly used when targeting lower extremity radicular pain. This level also allowed stable ECAP capture, while minimizing uncomfortable paresthesia and ensuring consistent stimulation during posture changes. Meanwhile, paresthesia mapping was performed intraoperatively to ensure adequate coverage of right-sided lower extremity pain. Fluoroscopic imaging confirmed appropriate lead placement slightly right of the midline plane in order to optimize right-sided radicular coverage (Figure 2). The image demonstrated a lead spanning the T7 vertebral body. Stimulation was delivered using the inferior four electrode contacts using a +/-/+ distribution. Programming parameters included a pulse width of 240 microseconds and a stimulation frequency of 40 Hz. The maximum stimulation current was set to 10 mA. The patient sensitivity was 40 microvolts per milliamp. The ECAP target max was 80 microvolts, and the ECAP target increment was 1 microvolt. The ECAP-controlled closed-loop system automatically adjusted stimulation output to maintain consistent neural recruitment throughout the trial period. The SCS trial was performed over five days, and it can maintain superior, long-term pain relief (up to 36 months). The dose response curve demonstrated a consistent relationship between voltage per unit of delivered current (milliamps) and the time to perception level, which was observed at approximately 1.5 milliseconds (Figure 3). A) Program 1, B) Program 2. ECAP: Evoked Compound Action Potentials. The image is created by the authors. During this time, the system performed approximately 24.2 million automated adjustments, reflecting continuous adaptation to physiological changes. Device utilization during the trial was 100% (Figure 4). A) Dose-Control adherence, B) Individual dose response curve, C) Real-time ECAP activation. ECAP: Evoked Compound Action Potentials. The image is created by the authors. Following treatment, the patient reported substantial improvement across all predefined therapy goals. Pain intensity decreased to an NRS score of 1/10. Sleep duration improved from four to six hours per night. Standing tolerance increased from 10 minutes to approximately one hour, and walking tolerance improved from five minutes to approximately four hours (Figure 5). In addition, other contributing factors, like placebo factors, may also contribute to the reduction of pain. The image is created by the authors.