The patient, a 40-year-old Japanese male, was admitted to the emergency room due to visual disturbances in both eyes for a month, and his fatigue had worsened over the past week. He was diagnosed with IgA nephropathy 24 years ago and underwent a living donor kidney transplant 19 years ago. His renal dysfunction had progressed gradually over the past three years. He had been diagnosed with chronic antibody-associated rejection nine months prior, and the dose of immunosuppressive drugs had increased. He received tacrolimus (2.4 mg/day) and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) (750 mg/day). He had poorly controlled hypertension for several months. His BP was usually between 160/90 and 170/100 mmHg but increased to 250/150 mmHg on admission. He was conscious and alert. Neurological examination revealed bilateral light perception, left homonymous hemianopsia, bilateral patellar hyperreflexia, and decreased sensation of vibration below the lumbar region. Urinalysis revealed hematuria and proteinuria, and blood tests revealed anemia (Hb 6.6 mg/dL), crushed erythrocytes, thrombocytopenia, and renal dysfunction; creatinine level was 6.69 mg/dL (Table 1). PTINR: prothrombin time-international normalization ratio; APTT: activated partial thromboplastin time; FDP: fibrinogen/fibrin degradation products; MMF: mycophenolate mofetil; sIL-2R: soluble interleukin 2 receptor; dsDNA: double-stranded DNA; MPO-ANCA: myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody; PR3-ANCA: proteinase 3-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody; ACE: angiotensin converting enzyme; ADAMTS13: disintegrin and metalloproteinase with a thrombospondin type 1 motif, member 13; AQP4: aquaporin 4; MBP: myelin basic protein; OCB: oligoclonal band; MOG: myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein; CBA: cell-based assay; RBCs: red blood cells. Disintegrin and metalloproteinase with a thrombospondin type 1 motif member 13 (ADAMTS13) activity, anti-aquaporin 4 (AQP4) antibody, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibody, collagen-related autoantibodies, and blood levels of tacrolimus and MMF were within normal ranges (Table 1). Cerebrospinal fluid examination (CSF) revealed elevated initial pressure and protein levels, with a normal range of cells. Regarding other CSF examinations, myelin basic protein was elevated, the oligoclonal band was positive, and the anti-MOG antibody was negative (Table 1). Fundus examination revealed Grade IV hypertensive retinopathy. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on admission showed hyperintense lesions on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps in the right parieto-occipital lobe, left basal ganglia, white matter around the lateral ventricles, brainstem, and bilateral cerebellar hemispheres (Figure 1a-d). Axial FLAIR (a, b) and ADC maps (c, d) of the hemisphere. There were hyperintense lesions in the right parieto-occipital lobe, left basal ganglia, and white matter around the lateral ventricles, brainstem, and bilateral cerebellar hemispheres. Axial DWI of the hemisphere (e, f). Some of the lesions are high intensity. Brain magnetic resonance angiography revealed no significant intracranial stenosis of the main trunk artery (g, h). MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; FLAIR: fluid-attenuated inversion recovery; ADC: apparent diffusion coefficient; DWI: diffusion-weighted image. Some lesions showed a high intensity on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) (Figure 1e, f). Magnetic resonance angiography of the brain revealed no significant intracranial stenosis of the main trunk artery. Spinal cord MRI on T2-weighted images showed long segment (from cervical to lumbar levels) hyperintense areas in the center of the spinal cord (Figure 2)​​​​​​. Sagittal T2-weighted images (a-c). Axial T2-weighted images (d: level of C2 vertebral body, e: level of Th4 vertebral body, f: level of Th10 vertebral body). Long segment (from cervical to lumbar levels) hyperintensity areas in the center of the spinal cord. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging. As PRES was suspected due to significant hypertension and/or immunosuppressive medications, antihypertensive therapy with continuous intravenous nicardipine was initiated, and the doses of tacrolimus and MMF were reduced. Hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia were considered secondary thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), and red blood cell (RBC) transfusions were performed. Hemodialysis was initiated three times per week from the second day of treatment. Considering that neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) could not be ruled out, one course of intravenous methylprednisolone pulse (IVMP) was administered with attention to blood pressure elevation. The continuous dose of intravenous nicardipine was gradually reduced and combined with oral nifedipine, azilsartan, sacubitril/valsartan, and thiazide antihypertensive drugs (Figure 3). His neurological symptoms, including visual disturbances, gradually improved. Similarly, an MRI after treatment revealed a significant reduction in brain and spinal cord lesions. Therefore, the patient was diagnosed with PRES-SCI. The possible triggering factors were acute kidney injury due to malignant hypertension, chronic antibody-related rejection, and the use of immunosuppressive medications. The patient was transferred to another hospital on day 23 and was weaned off hemodialysis on day 27. The brain and spinal cord lesions on MRI almost disappeared on day 43 after onset (Figure 4a-d). Since then, he has not developed PRES. Axial FLAIR of the hemisphere (a, b) and sagittal T2-weighted images of the medulla (c, d). The lesions of the brain and spinal cord had almost disappeared. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging; FLAIR: fluid-attenuated inversion recovery.