An 83-year-old female with a medical history of rheumatoid arthritis and LSS was referred to our pain clinic by her orthopedic surgeon in May 2023. She presented with worsening back pain and bilateral leg pain, more pronounced on the left side, persisting for over two months. Her pain exhibited characteristics consistent with neurogenic claudication, including a positive shopping cart sign. Her functional mobility and walking distance progressively declined due to the persisting pain. Her physical examination was notable for lumbar paraspinal tenderness, positive facet loading, and a positive straight leg test on the left. MRI findings revealed diffuse degenerative disease with moderate central canal stenosis at L2-4 and severe stenosis at L4-5. This was primarily attributed to LFH measuring 3.9 mm, along with disc bulging and hypertrophic facet arthropathy (Figure 1). Additionally, there was moderate to significant bilateral foraminal narrowing secondary to grade 1 anterolisthesis. We elected to manage her pain with L5-S1 interlaminar lumbar epidural steroid injection; however, pain relief was limited to less than 50% and only lasted for a few days. Two months later, she underwent left L5 and left S1 transforaminal epidural steroid injection; however, again, there was no significant improvement in her pain level or function. Further imaging evaluation was notable for spinal instability on her flexion-extension lumbar X-rays, evidenced by grade 1 retrolisthesis of L1 on L2 and L2 on L3 that improves on flexion (Figures 2, 3). Given the limited efficacy of the epidural injections, we considered the MILD procedure as a treatment option to alleviate lumbar spine compression. However, the potential risk of exacerbating spine instability, particularly in the context of dynamic instability, prompted a comprehensive discussion with the neurosurgery team. Given the heightened risk of infection associated with the patient’s current medical treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and risk for pseudoarthrosis with instrumentation, given the advanced age and chronic rheumatoid arthritis treatment, the neurosurgery team recommended proceeding with the MILD procedure, with the option for surgery if the outcomes proved to be limited. The patient actively participated in this deliberation and ultimately chose to undergo the MILD procedure. The patient underwent the MILD procedure at the L4-5 and L3-4 in October 2023, resulting in significant improvement in both pain and functional status. Pain intensity, as assessed by the Visual Analog Scale, improved markedly from a consistent baseline range of 6-8 to 0-2 on follow-up visits. In parallel, her Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Pain Interference T-scores decreased from 73 and 72 pre-procedure to 55 and 57 post-procedure, reflecting a substantial reduction in pain-related functional limitations. Clinically, she reported the ability to ambulate significantly longer distances and increased participation in household physical activities. Follow-up over a 12-month period demonstrated sustained improvement and a favorable long-term outcome.