The patient, a 45-year-old male, was admitted to the hospital on September 8, 2024, with the chief complaint of weakness in the left lower extremity for over 20 days, and the disease course is illustrated in Figure 1. In mid-June 2024, the patient gradually developed a herpes zoster rash on the left lumbar and abdominal area, accompanied by pain. After antiviral treatment at a local hospital, the pain improved and the rash gradually dried up and crusted over. In mid-August 2024, the patient experienced weakness in the left lower extremity, manifested as difficulty climbing slopes and stairs. There was no obvious dragging when walking, and no numbness or discomfort in the limbs. The patient visited a local hospital and underwent a head CT scan, which showed no significant abnormalities, and was discharged without further treatment. After discharge, the patient noted persistent symptoms and subsequently visited our hospital on September 6, 2024. At that time, the main symptoms were difficulty in lifting the left lower extremity independently, dragging when walking, and numbness in the left lower extremity. Nerve conduction velocity tests of both lower extremities showed decreased motor conduction velocity of the left tibial nerve, low amplitude of compound muscle action potential, and decreased sensory conduction velocity. The motor conduction amplitude of the left common peroneal nerve was low, and the sensory conduction velocity was decreased. No abnormalities were found in the right tibial nerve, and common peroneal nerve. The outpatient physician considered the diagnosis to be “herpes zoster combined with peripheral neuropathy” and prescribed valacyclovir 0.3 g, twice daily; prednisone acetate 20 mg, once daily; and aluminum magnesium carbonate chewable tablets 1 g, 3 times daily. Despite taking the prescribed medications, the symptoms did not improve significantly, leading to the patient’s readmission on September 8, 2024, for further treatment. The patient has a history of pulmonary tuberculosis, which he reports having been cured. Timeline of disease course. Physical examination upon admission revealed a body temperature of 36.7°C, pulse rate of 80 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 20 breaths per minute, and blood pressure of 123/78 mm Hg. Scattered ring-shaped scabs and pigmentation were observed on the left flank(Approximately at T9) (Fig. 2). No significant abnormalities were found on general internal examination. The neurological examination showed the patient was conscious with fluent speech and normal higher cortical function. Cranial nerve examination was unremarkable. Muscle strength was 5/5 in the left upper limb, 3/5 in the left lower limb, and 5/5 in the right upper limb, with normal muscle tone in all limbs. Tendon reflexes were normal. Sensory testing revealed decreased pain sensation in the left lower extremity, while deep sensation was intact. Ankle clonus was present on the left side, and pathological reflexes were absent bilaterally. The patient exhibited an steppage gait. When the patient was admitted, scattered annular plaques and areas of hyperpigmentation were observed in the left abdominal region, corresponding to the T9 spinal nerve root dermatome. Auxiliary examinations: Cerebrospinal fluid routine showed that the color was colorless, clarity was clear and transparent, and no clot formation was observed. The protein qualitative test was negative. The white blood cell count was 11 × 10^6 cells/L, with 91% mononuclear cells and 9% polymorphonuclear cells. The red blood cell count was 0 × 10^6 cells/L, and red blood cell morphology showed no red blood cells observed. Cerebrospinal fluid biochemistry revealed the following: lactate dehydrogenase, 31.4 U/L; glucose, 3.34 mmol/L; lactate, 1.95 mmol/L; chloride, 123.5 mmol/L; and protein, 0.432 g/L. Varicella-zoster virus IgG (VZV-IgG) was positively detected in cerebrospinal fluid. Targeted high-throughput sequencing (tNGS) of cerebrospinal fluid yielded a negative result. Spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging showed a fusiform abnormal signal at the T7–9 vertebral level of the spinal cord (Fig. 3). The lesion measured approximately 0.7 cm × 0.6 cm × 4.0 cm in size. It was isointense on T1WI and exhibited high signal on T2WI and FLAIR, with clear boundaries. Nerve conduction velocity studies of both lower extremities revealed decreased motor conduction velocity of the left tibial nerve with low amplitude, and decreased sensory conduction velocity. The left common peroneal nerve showed low amplitude of motor conduction and decreased sensory conduction velocity. No abnormalities were detected in the right tibial nerve and common peroneal nerve. The sagittal plane shows T2 fat-suppressed sequence, with slightly high signal shadows at T7 to T9. (A) The cross-section is T2 sequence, showing a round-like low signal shadow at T8. (B) The cross-section is T2 sequence, showing a round-like low signal shadow at T9 (C). Treatment plan: After admission, antiviral treatment with acyclovir (0.5 g, every 8 hours, 9-day course) was initiated. Based on preventive anti-tuberculosis treatment with rifampicin (0.45 g, once daily) and isoniazid (0.3 g, once daily), a 3-day steroid pulse therapy at 0.5 g once daily was administered. Prognosis and outcome: The patient’s muscle strength improved from 3/5 at admission to 4/5 at discharge; additionally, numbness has decreased, and pain and temperature sensations have improved.