A 13-year-old Ugandan Munyankore female patient, presented with a 6-year history of nontraumatic progressive quadriparesis, particularly in the lower limbs. Clinical examination showed power of 1/5 in the lower limbs, 4/5 in the upper limbs, hypertonia and hyperreflexia, with intact sensation, and no stigmata of neurofibromatosis. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed two “kissing” schwannomas extending from C2 to T2 in the cervical spine. Decompressive surgery was performed through laminoplasty and partial lesion resection, and histology confirmed schwannoma. Follow up of the patient showed stabilizing neurological status with noted improvement in lower limb strength. A 13-year-old Ugandan Munyankore female patient, presented to our neurosurgery division with a 6-year history of progressive quadriparesis, primarily affecting her lower limbs and rendering her unable to walk. She reported mild headaches but had no neck pain, incontinence, convulsions, or vomiting. Her medical history was unremarkable, and she had no prior trauma or skin lesions. On physical examination, she displayed no signs of chronic illness, with stable vital signs and no café au lait spots or iris hamartomas (Lisch nodules). Neurologically, she was alert with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 15/15. Quadriparesis was present with upper limb power rated 3/5 and lower limb power rated 1/5. The limbs were hypertonic with hyperreflexia, especially in the lower extremities. Examination of the spine revealed thoracic kyphosis without tenderness. On the basis of these findings, cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging(MRI) (Fig. 1) and blood tests (which returned normal) were ordered. Genetic testing was not done owing to lack of these facilities in the country yet outsourced services abroad are very expensive.Fig. 1A–F Preoperative magnetic resonance findings. Images A (Sagittal T1-W), B (Sagittal T2-W) and C (Sagittal T1-FS + C) show two closely associated extramedullary, intradural cervical lesions extending from C2 to T1 level. They have low to intermediate signal on T1 and T2 and show heterogenous post-contrast enhancement. Images D (Coronal T2-W), E (Axial T2-W) and F (Coronal T1-MPRAGE) show expansion and protrusion of the masses through the C5 neural exit foramina (E), with compression and squashing of the spinal cord between the two masses (D and F) A–F Preoperative magnetic resonance findings. Images A (Sagittal T1-W), B (Sagittal T2-W) and C (Sagittal T1-FS + C) show two closely associated extramedullary, intradural cervical lesions extending from C2 to T1 level. They have low to intermediate signal on T1 and T2 and show heterogenous post-contrast enhancement. Images D (Coronal T2-W), E (Axial T2-W) and F (Coronal T1-MPRAGE) show expansion and protrusion of the masses through the C5 neural exit foramina (E), with compression and squashing of the spinal cord between the two masses (D and F) The patient underwent surgery via a midline posterior cervical incision. A laminoplasty (Fig. 4) was performed from C2 to T2, followed by a dural opening, revealing a sausage-shaped lesion (Fig. 5). The lesion was carefully removed in small sections to decompress the spinal cord, with histology samples collected (Fig. 3). Owing to their proximity to the vertebral arteries, the intraforaminal and extraforaminal components were left unresected. The immediate and early postoperative period was uneventful, and the patient was discharged home with her baseline neurological status. At 2 weeks post-discharge, she returned with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage (Figs. 2 and 6), neck pain, and a headache rated 6/10 on the numerical analog scale (NAS); however, the patient did not meet the criteria for meningitis. She was readmitted and underwent a re-look surgery with duraplasty at the C6 left foramina. During the wound exploration, CSF leakage was identified at the C6 left foramina and successfully sealed using muscle and Surgicel, with Valsalva testing confirming no further leaks. Laminoplasty (Fig. 4) was then re-performed, followed by myofascial closure.Fig. 2First postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings. Images A and B show an extensive extradural collection with low signal on T1 and high signal on T2, extending from C1 to T2 levels. The cervical spinal cord is decompressed though shows a heterogeneous dirty signal on T1 and T2. Findings were consistent with post-operative cerebrospinal fluid leakageFig. 3Histology results showing a hypercelullar region of the tumor with cells that are narrow, elongated, and wavy (arrow) interspersed with numerous verocay bodies (arrow heads) at ×100 and ×200 magnification as shown in A and B, respectively. This is consistent with a schwannomaFig. 4Laminoplasty (arrow head) was performed from C2 to T2 First postoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings. Images A and B show an extensive extradural collection with low signal on T1 and high signal on T2, extending from C1 to T2 levels. The cervical spinal cord is decompressed though shows a heterogeneous dirty signal on T1 and T2. Findings were consistent with post-operative cerebrospinal fluid leakage Histology results showing a hypercelullar region of the tumor with cells that are narrow, elongated, and wavy (arrow) interspersed with numerous verocay bodies (arrow heads) at ×100 and ×200 magnification as shown in A and B, respectively. This is consistent with a schwannoma Laminoplasty (arrow head) was performed from C2 to T2 Her postoperative recovery was uneventful, and she was placed on physiotherapy. At 2 months follow-up, her neurological examination showed slight improvement, with lower limb power increasing to 3/5 (Fig. 3). Figures 4, 5, 6.Fig. 5Sausage-shaped lesion (arrow head). Reflected dura (arrow)Fig. 6Gaped surgical site wound (arrow) with cerebrospinal fluid leakage Sausage-shaped lesion (arrow head). Reflected dura (arrow) Gaped surgical site wound (arrow) with cerebrospinal fluid leakage