A 52-year-old male with a 20-year history of smoking presented with a three-year history of persistent low back pain accompanied by right lower limb pain and numbness. Symptoms were localized to the right buttock, posterolateral thigh, calf, and sole. Physical examination revealed tenderness and percussion pain over the L4-S1 segment, diminished muscle tone in the right lower limb, and positive results in the straight leg raising and strengthening tests for the same limb. No significant abnormalities were noted in other physical evaluations. Three-dimensional (3D) lumbar Computed Tomography (CT) demonstrated a posterior marginal separation of the S1 vertebra and a calcified protrusion of the L5-S1 intervertebral disc extending toward the right posterior region (Figures 1A,B). Lumbar Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) confirmed an L5-S1 disc herniation (Figures 1C,D). The diagnosis of LDH with radiculopathy was established. Preoperative pain and functional disability were assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), with scores of 5/10 and 72, respectively. Surgical intervention involved right hemilaminectomy, spinal canal decompression, nerve root exploration and release, lumbar discectomy, fusion cage implantation, bone graft, intervertebral fusion, and fixation (Figure 2). Intraoperatively, the posterior marginal osteophyte of the S1 vertebra was observed to displace the S1 traversing nerve root outward into the lateral recess. S1 nerve root was completely encased by a narrowed, bone tunnel-like structure at the upper edge of the S1 vertebra. Postoperatively, the patient exhibited plantar flexion weakness in the right lower limb, with triceps surae muscle strength graded at Medical Research Council (MRC) grade 3, while other muscle groups retained normal strength (grade 5). At the 3-month follow-up, the triceps surae muscle strength improved to MRC grade 4+. The VAS score improved to 1/10, and the ODI score significantly improved to 18, indicating minimal pain and mild disability. The overall outcome assessed by Macnab Criteria was rated as “good”. Case 1. Three-dimensional (3D) lumbar Computed Tomography (CT) demonstrated a posterior marginal separation of the S1 vertebra and a calcified protrusion of the L5-S1 intervertebral disc extending toward the right posterior region (A,B); Lumbar Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) confirmed an L5-S1 disc herniation (C,D). Case 1. Postoperative lumbar 3D CT showed that the vertebral posterior margin osteophytes were completely removed and the nerve roots were released. (A) Transverse image; (B) Lateral image. A 60-year-old male with a 40-year smoking history and a 1-year history of hypertension presented with a 6-year history of low back pain, recently exacerbated by pain and numbness in the left lower limb for 3 months. He previously experienced intermittent pain and numbness in the right lower limb, which resolved spontaneously. Current symptoms include pain and numbness in the left buttock, posterior and lateral thigh, and lateral calf, accompanied by intermittent claudication. Physical examination revealed tenderness and percussion pain at the L4–5 level, reduced sensation in the left buttock, posterior and lateral thigh, lateral calf, and dorsum of the foot, positive results on the straight leg raising and strengthening tests of the left lower limb, and bilateral Achilles tendon reflex attenuation. Other examination findings were unremarkable. Lumbar 3D CT identified a posterior marginal separation of the L5 vertebra and a calcified, right-posterior L4–5 intervertebral disc protrusion (Figures 3A,B). Lumbar MRI confirmed L4–5 intervertebral disc herniation and associated spinal canal stenosis (Figures 3C,D). A diagnosis of LDH with spinal stenosis (L4/5) was established. Preoperative VAS and ODI yielded scores of 5/10 and 68, respectively. The patient underwent bilateral transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) and bilateral nerve root exploration and release (Figure 4). Intraoperatively, the posterior marginal osteophyte of the L5 vertebra was observed to displace the L5 traversing nerve root outward into the lateral recess. L5 nerve root was completely encased by a narrowed, bone tunnel-like structure at the upper edge of the L5 vertebra. Postoperatively, dorsiflexion weakness in the right lower limb was noted, with MRC grade 3 strength observed in the tibialis anterior and extensor hallucis longus, while other muscle groups retained normal strength (grade 5). At the 3-month follow-up, the strength of the tibialis anterior and extensor hallucis longus improved to MRC grade 5. The VAS score decreased to 0/10, and the ODI score improved markedly to 12, reflecting no pain and minimal disability. The overall outcome was “Excellent”. Case 2. Lumbar 3D CT identified a posterior marginal separation of the L5 vertebra and a calcified, right-posterior L4-5 intervertebral disc protrusion (A,B); Lumbar MRI confirmed L4-5 intervertebral disc herniation and associated spinal canal stenosis (C,D). Case 2. Postoperative lumbar 3D CT showed that the vertebral posterior margin osteophytes were completely removed and the nerve roots were released (A,B).