A 74-year-old woman presented with a two-year history of buttock pain, bilateral posterior thigh pain, and numbness in the soles of her feet. She had been diagnosed with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) at another hospital 1 year prior, based on MRI findings. Despite conservative treatment, her symptoms worsened, particularly during ambulation, and she was referred to our hospital. Her medical history included hypertension, dyslipidemia, and cataracts. On presentation, she had numbness in both soles at rest, and intermittent claudication worsened her leg pain after walking approximately 200 m. No bladder or rectal dysfunction or perineal symptoms were present. Physical examination revealed lower limb numbness with lumbar extension, but Kemp’s sign was negative bilaterally. Straight leg raising and femoral nerve stretch tests were also negative bilaterally. Deep tendon reflexes were normal at the patella but absent in both Achilles tendons. Sensory examination showed hyperesthesia extending from the anterolateral thigh to the posterolateral lower legs and soles. Manual muscle testing (MMT) revealed grade 4 weakness in the bilateral gastrocnemius and flexor digitorum longus. Plain lumbar radiographs showed anterior slippage of L3 (Figure 1), and lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed severe canal stenosis at L3-4 (Figures 2A, 2B). She was diagnosed with mixed-type LSS secondary to L3 degenerative spondylolisthesis based on her symptoms, neurological findings, and image findings. Lumbar radiograph at initial presentation showing anterior slippage of L3 (yellow arrow). Preoperative lumbar MRI demonstrating L3 slippage and lumbar spinal stenosis at the L3-4 level (yellow arrow) on the sagittal plane (A), and severe stenosis at L3-4 on the axial plane (B). The patient underwent a spinous process-splitting laminotomy at L3-4. The L3 spinous process was divided using a bone saw, followed by laminotomy. During ligamentum flavum removal, firm adhesions to the right lateral dura mater were noted and carefully separated, and the ligamentum flavum was resected. No dural tear or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage was observed intraoperatively. A submuscular closed-hole-type drain was placed under negative pressure, and the wound was subsequently closed. The operative duration was two hours and 18 minutes, with an estimated blood loss of 37 mL. Her lower limb symptoms improved immediately after surgery, and ambulation began on postoperative day 1. There were no postoperative activity restrictions, including toileting, and rehabilitation was initiated the same day. The drain was removed on postoperative day 3, with a total drainage volume of 240 mL of serosanguineous fluid. On the same day, the patient developed new-onset perineal numbness after straining during defecation and was found to have urinary retention. Motor function was unchanged, but new sensory dullness in the perineal region was noted. MRI revealed a lesion at the L3-4 decompression site with low T1 and high T2 signal intensity (Figure 3A-3D), indicating a postoperative hematoma causing acute CES. Lumbar MRI after the initial surgery showing a compressive lesion at the L3-4 decompression site (yellow arrow) with low signal intensity on T1-weighted images (A and B) and high signal intensity on T2-weighted images (C and D). Emergency reoperation was performed four days after the initial surgery (one day after symptom onset). Upon reopening the incision and re-splitting the L3 spinous process, herniated nerve roots were identified beneath the spinous process. A longitudinal dural tear with a herniated and incarcerated cauda equina was observed at the decompression site. No CSF leakage was noted. The dural tear was extended to release the incarcerated nerve roots, which were repositioned into the dural sac. The dura was repaired with sutures. A new drainage tube was placed on the remaining L3 lamina, and the spinous process was reconstructed before wound closure. No postoperative lower limb paralysis was observed. She regained spontaneous urination and defecation the day after surgery. Postoperative pain and intermittent claudication improved, and the patient was discharged 11 days after the second surgery. At the one-year follow-up, her original lower back and leg pain had not recurred. However, she continued to experience some perineal and lower limb sensory disturbances and remained in pharmacological therapy.