For three months, an 18-year-old male developed progressive low back pain and mid-low back swelling. The computed tomography (CT) scan showed a mass invading the L1 vertebral body and right pedicle. The Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) documented a complex cystic, osteolytic lesion measuring 7 cm × 7.7 cm × 5 cm that displaced the thecal sac to the left. After the biopsy confirmed an ABC, the patient underwent pre-operative embolization that reduced the vascularity by 80%; this was succeeded by en bloc total lesion resection with an instrumented fusion. An 18-year-old male presented with 3 months of progressive low back pain and mid-low back swelling. Both the CT and MR studies showed a cystic/osteolytic mass invading the body and right pedicle of L1. The MR further demonstrated that the cyst contained a fluid-fluid level (measuring 7 cm × 7.7 cm × 5 cm) that extended into the spinal canal, displacing the thecal sac to the left [Figure 1]. The biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of an ABC. The patient then underwent embolization 2 days preoperatively utilizing polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) particles placed in the L1 right lumbar artery and the right T11 segmental artery medial branches; post-embolization runs showed 80% reduction in the lesion vascularity with mild residual input from the T12 segmental arteries [Figure 2]. Surgery included a T12-L1 laminectomy for subtotal tumor resection; the left L1 lamina and left pedicle/vertebra were removed en bloc; a supplemental T11-L3 posterolateral fusion was performed to maintain stability [Figure 3]. Intraoperatively, the O-arm facilitated pedicle screw placement T11 to L3, sparing the right pedicle of L1 (i.e., embedded in tumor); the posterolateral fusion was then completed utilizing putty/bone graft, and bilateral rods [Figure 4]. The postoperative MRI documented a small amount of residual tumor in the right paraspinal region (1.2 cm × 0.8 cm), which could not be removed due to its proximity to the right kidney [Figure 5]. The final histopathology documented an ABC [Figure 6]. Postoperatively, the patient was stable and neurologically intact. At 1 year follow-up, there were no significant clinical or radiographic changes; specifically, there was no regrowth of the residual tumor. Pre-operative magnetic resonance imaging [(a) Coronal, (b) Sagittal, (c) Axial] showing complex cystic osteolytic mass with fluid level, post-neural arch and right transversal process of L1 vertebrae with intraspinal extension indenting and displacing the thecal sac to the left. Fluoroscopy of the right L1 artery that mainly supplied the mass, (a) Pre-embolization, (b) Post-embolization. Aneurysmal bone cysts tumor resected en block measuring approximately 7 cm × 7.7 cm × 5 cm. X-ray [(a) anteroposterior (AP), (b) lateral views] showing screws fixation from level T11 to L3 sparing the right pedicle of L1. Post-op Magnetic resonance imaging [(a) Sagittal, (b) Axial] showing tumor resection with small residual in the right paraspinal region (arrow) that was left because of proximity to the kidney. Microscopic examination of the L1 aneurysmal bone cyst (H&E stain, x20). Large, unlined hemorrhagic cystic spaces are separated by cellular fibrous septa. These septa are composed of uniform spindle cells admixed with numerous osteoclast-like giant cells and areas of reactive osteoid deposition with distinct osteoblastic rimming, without evidence of atypia. H&E: Hematoxylin and Eosin