A 38-year-old male presented with low backache and weakness of bilateral lower limbs for 2 weeks after lifting a heavy object. He also complained of bowel and bladder incontinence. Radiographs show L2–L3 disc space narrowing with no sign of instability in dynamic views. MRI showed an L2–L3 disc bulge with an extruded disc fragment compressing the central canal. Since the patient was young, to avoid fusion and adjacent segment disease, we planned for L2–L3 discectomy using a minimally invasive spinous process osteotomy approach. During the post-operative period, there was significant improvement in motor power and bowel and bladder control. The patient was mobilized from day 01 with support. With 1 year of follow-up, the patient is pain-free and has returned to his routine activities. Follow-up X-ray of the patient shows no sign of instability. Pre-operative data was collected based on the history and the clinical presentation of the patient. A 38-year-old male presented with low back ache and weakness of bilateral lower limb for two weeks after lifting a heavy object. He also complained of bowel and bladder incontinence. Pre-operative motor and sensory assessment done. Detailed consent was obtained from the patient for the study. Radiographs show L2-L3 disc space narrowing [Fig. 1], with no sign of instability in dynamic views. MRI showed an L2-L3 disc bulge with an extruded disc fragment compressing the central canal [Fig. 2]. Since the patient was young, to avoid fusion and adjacent segment disease, we planned for L2-L3 discectomy using a minimally invasive spinous process osteotomy approach, which is a well-established procedure described for minimally invasive spine surgeries. X-rays show narrowing of L2–L3 disc space with loss of lordosis. Sagittal MRI a & b shows an extruded disc (arrow) at L2–L3 levels. Axial MRI sections c shows disc bulge at L2-L3 with significant central canal compression (arrow). Surgical procedure: The patient was positioned in a prone position under general anesthesia, a posterior midline incision was made, and left-side paraspinal muscles were erased. L2-L3 level reached. Interspinous and supraspinous ligaments were slightly released from the above and below spinous process. L2 spinous process osteotomy is done using a curved osteotome, keeping a bridge of 10mm of the base of the spinous process intact. With discectomy distractors, the spinous process was retracted, and a broad exposure was obtained [Fig. 3]. Fenestration of lamina was done on either side, keeping the bilateral facet joint and pars interarticularis intact [Fig. 4]. Flavectomy and partial medial facetectomy were done. Intraoperatively, an extruded disc fragment was seen compressing the spinal cord [Fig. 5], and discectomy was done with minimal handling of the spinal cord. Once the distractors are removed; the spinous process falls back into position. Sutures were applied over the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments, and meticulous paraspinal muscle closure was done to keep the osteotomized spinous process in position. Fig. 6 shows the schematic representation of the procedure. Intraoperative image shows the spinous process osteotomy site and exposure obtained with retractors. Image shows adequate decompression of the cord and bilateral roots. The image shows a large extruded disc fragment. Schematic representation of the spinous process osteotomy procedure with images showing post-partial laminectomy status. The post-operative period was uneventful. During the post-operative period, there was significant improvement in motor power and bowel and bladder control. The patient was mobilized from day 01 with support. With one year follow-up, the patient is pain-free and has returned to his routine activities. Fig. 7 shows the follow-up x-ray of the patient without any sign of instability. One-year follow-up X-ray shows intact disc space (arrow) without any sign of instability.