A 58-year-old man presented with intermittent claudication and underwent endoscopic lumbar laminectomy for L2/3 and L3/4 lumbar spinal canal stenosis at another hospital in March 2024 (Figures 1a-1b). The operation was performed using a tubular retractor without pumped irrigation for 78 minutes, with 50 ml of blood loss and no complications like cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage. The patient's symptoms improved during the first two months postoperatively, but gradually developed weakness and sensory deficits in the right lower extremity in May 2024. Lumbar MRI two months after laminectomy showed improvement in spinal canal stenosis, accompanied by slight hyperintensity and signal voids in the conus medullaris (Figures 1c-1d). Four months after laminectomy, the patient was referred to the neurology department of our hospital (Kitano Hospital) in July 2024 because of the rapid worsening of motor paralysis after caudal epidural block injection at another clinic. The specifics of the injection were not accessible. Lumbar puncture revealed a normal cell profile, normal protein levels, no abnormalities on flow cytometry, and negative CSF oligoclonal bands. Thoracolumbar MRI revealed hyperintensity below the mid-thoracic level on T2-weighted imaging, leading to a diagnosis of myelitis (Figure 1e). (a) Initial sagittal T2-weighted MRI showing lumbar spinal canal stenosis at the L2/L3 and L3/L4 levels, with faint intramedullary hyperintensity. (b) Initial coronal FIESTA MRI showing lumbar spinal canal stenosis at the L2/L3 and L3/L4 levels, without abnormal vessels. (c) Sagittal T2-weighted MRI after laminectomy showing resolution of the spinal canal stenosis, but a slight flow void (white arrow) was observed dorsally to the conus medullaris. Hyperintense lesions in the conus medullaris were also observed compared to the initial image. (d) Coronal FIESTA MRI after showing lumbar spinal canal stenosis at the L2/L3 and L3/L4 levels without abnormal vessels (white arrow). (e) The hyperintense lesion was enlarged longitudinally to the mid-thoracic level. Multiple dorsal flow voids (white arrow) were concurrently observed. (f) Coronal contrast-enhanced MRI demonstrating an abnormal vessel (white arrow) running longitudinally in the thoracic spinal cord. (g) Digital subtraction angiography of the right L2 segmental artery, revealing an epidural arteriovenous fistula fed by the dorsal somatic branch (white arrow). The fistula (black arrowhead) drained into the perimedullary vein (black arrow). (h) The shunt pouch (black arrowhead) was located in the epidural space on the axial image of the rotational three-dimensional angiography. MRI: magnetic resonance image; FIESTA: fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition The patient was initially treated under the diagnosis of myelitis with intravenous methylprednisolone at a dose of 1000 mg/day for five consecutive days, followed by plasma exchange therapy administered every two to three days. Subsequently, an additional course of intravenous methylprednisolone (1000 mg/day for three days) was administered. These treatments yielded only a transient and mild improvement in motor function and bladder symptoms, which gradually worsened. Contrast-enhanced gadolinium MRI revealed abnormal blood vessels on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the thoracic spinal cord (Figure 1f). Therefore, the patient was referred to our neurosurgery department in August 2024. The patient had bilateral hypoesthesia below the groin, with grade 3 strength on the right side and grade 4 strength on the left lower extremity. Knee and Achilles tendon reflexes were diminished bilaterally. He had difficulty standing and bladder dysfunction. Angiography of the right segmental L2 artery showed an epidural AVF at the right L2/3 level fed by the dorsal somatic branch, draining retrogradely into the perimedullary vein (Figure 1g). Rotational three-dimensional angiography revealed a shunt pouch in the epidural space (Figure 1h). One day after the epidural AVF was diagnosed, the patient underwent a right L2/3 hemilaminectomy and epidural AVF extraction. Owing to the urgency of the patient’s neurological decline, the surgery was performed emergently without intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring. Because a left unilateral laminectomy for bilateral decompression was performed in the previous endoscopic surgery, the adhesion between the dorsal dura and postoperative granulation needed to be dissected. However, the right lateral and ventral sides of the dura near the epidural shunt fistula were intact and the ligamentum flavum was preserved. After dural opening with an exoscope, a dilated vein emanating from the right L2/3 foramen (Figure 2a) and early retrograde filling were confirmed using indocyanine green angiography (Figure 2b). All exoscopic procedures were conducted under high magnification, and the draining vein was coagulated only after careful inspection to ensure that no critical perimedullary arteries or veins were present in the operative field. After suturing the dura, the epidural shunt pouch ventromedial to the right L3 nerve root was confirmed (Figure 2c) and was removed. Postoperative MRI showed disappearance of the dilated vessels on T2-weighted images (Figure 2d), and contrast-enhanced images and digital subtraction angiography (DSA) revealed disappearance of the epidural AVF (Figure 2e). Three weeks after the surgery, the patient was discharged for inpatient rehabilitation. His lower extremity strength improved at discharge, with grade 4 on the right side and grade 5 on the left side. From the preoperative period to three months postoperatively, Japanese Orthopaedic Association scores improved from 3 to 12 and the Oswestry Disability Index improved from 74 to 48. However, the patient continued to undergo self-catheterization for persistent neurogenic bladder dysfunction. MRI performed four months after surgery showed improvement in edema of the spinal cord (Figure 2f). At an outpatient visit seven months after surgery, motor paralysis, gait disturbance, and dysuria improved. However, numbness persisted in both lower limbs. (a,b) After opening the dura, a dilated reddish vein (black arrow) was identified. Early retrograde flow in the vein was observed with ICG (b). The veins were coagulated and obliterated. (c) The shunting pouch (black arrowhead) of the epidural arteriovenous fistula was ventrally identified after dural retraction. (d) Postoperative sagittal T2-weighted MRI showing disappearance of flow voids but with residual edema of the spinal cord. (e) Postoperative digital subtraction angiography revealing the disappearance of the epidural arteriovenous fistula. (f) Sagittal T2-weighted MRI four months after surgery showing improvement in spinal cord edema. ICG: indocyanine green; MRI: magnetic resonance image