A 79-year-old female with known lumbar spinal stenosis developed sudden worsening of low back pain, bilateral buttock pain, and right L5 radiculopathy. The MRI revealed multilevel lumbar canal/foraminal stenosis with uniformly low T2 signal intensity within the ligamentum flavum (LF) at all levels. The computed tomography demonstrated calcification at the right L2/3 facet joint, but no findings suggestive of hematoma. At surgery, the LF at L2/3 appeared brownish and degenerated. Incision into the LF produced the immediate release of non-coagulated dark-red blood consistent with LFH. In addition, the LF demonstrated marked inflammatory changes, marked hypertrophy, and strong adhesions to the underlying dura. Postoperatively, the patient’s symptoms rapidly improved. The histopathology was consistent with a hematoma (i.e., LFH-hemosiderin deposition and inflammatory infiltration). A 79-year-old female presented with atraumatic worsening right-sided sciatica/L5 radiculopathy (L4/5) without sensory or sphincter dysfunction. She had a history of a stroke and was on antiplatelet therapy (aspirin). The MR revealed multilevel L2-5 lumbar canal/foraminal stenosis with hypertrophied LF (HLF) and the computed tomography (CT) only showed calcification along the medial aspect of the right L2/3facet joint [Figure 1A-F]. The stenosis was most severe at L2/3, while the MRI showed that the HLF was of uniformly low signal intensity on T2-weighted images at all levels. The patient underwent a microsurgical laminectomy utilizing a spinous process-splitting approach. At L2/3, the LF appeared brownish and degenerated, and incision of the ligament resulted in the immediate release of non-coagulated, dark-red hematoma consistent with the diagnosis of LFH [Figure 2A and B]. The L3/4 and L4/5 levels only revealed LFH without hemorrhage. The histopathology of the L2/3 LF revealed hematoma with hemosiderin and marked inflammatory cell infiltration, whereas the L3/4 pathology revealed just simple degenerative LF hypertrophy [Figure 2C and D]. Postoperatively, the patient regained full neurological function, and the postoperative MRI demonstrated adequate expansion of the lumbar canal [Figure 3A-D]. (A-F) Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography (CT). (A, C-E): T2-weighted images showed multilevel lumbar canal and foraminal stenosis at L2/3, L3/4, and L4/5 due to hypertrophied ligamentum flavum (A: Sagittal; C-E: Axial). (B and F): CT demonstrated calcification along the medial aspect of the right facet joint at L2/3 (B: Sagittal; F: Axial). (A) Intraoperative photographs showed that the ligamentum flavum at L2/3 appeared brownish and degenerated, (B) and incision of the ligament resulted in the outflow of non-coagulated dark-red hematoma. (C) Hematoxylin-eosin staining of the L2/3 ligamentum flavum revealed hematoma with hemosiderin deposition and marked inflammatory cell infiltration, confirming ligamentum flavum hematoma. (D) Examination of the L3/4 ligamentum flavum revealed simple degenerative hypertrophy. (C: ×200; D: ×100). Postoperative T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated expansion of the lumbar canal at L2/3, L3/4, and L4/5 (A: Sagittal; B-D: Axial).