A 59-year-old Chinese gentleman presented with complaints of neck pain following a motor vehicle accident. Examination and imaging reveal normal findings. He was put on a cervical immobilizer. Three weeks later, he returned to the emergency department, reporting bilateral lower limb weakness and difficulty walking. There were no recent falls, and he denied any urinary or bowel incontinence. Neurological examination revealed intact function in the upper limbs from C5 to T1 bilaterally. However, there was a complete loss of power below L4 bilaterally (Medical Research Council {MRC}: 0), with preserved sensation. Plain cervical radiograph (Figure 1) and lumbosacral radiograph (Figure 2) show a typical "bamboo spine" with no obvious fracture or osteolysis. A repeated CT scan showed a C6 body fracture with a chance fracture of L4 and a chip fracture of L3 vertebrae. The fractures in the spine and sacroiliac joints suggest ankylosing spondylitis. On magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), T2 short tau inversion recovery (STIR) sequence disclosed high signal intensity from the body and neural arch, most likely due to posttraumatic edema consistent with fracture. A cervical MRI shows a fracture over the C6 body with evidence of spinal stenosis (Figure 3), while a lumbosacral MRI revealed a chance fracture of L4 (Figure 4). This fracture in a patient with AS involved all three spinal columns and was therefore considered unstable. He underwent posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion (PSIF) from C3 to T2 (Figure 5) and PSIF from L1 to S2 (Figure 6) with bone cement augmentation and L4/L5 decompression laminectomy. The procedure was done under fluoroscopy guidance as the areas of fusion were blurred due to the AS. The decision to fix with instrumentation extending over three vertebrae above and three below the fracture level was made due to compact cortical bone contrasting with demineralization within the vertebral bodies that requires multilevel anchoring. This ensures favorable stress distribution on the implants, providing additional stability along the sagittal plane. PSIF: posterior spinal instrumentation and fusion Postoperatively, the patient was able to ambulate with a wheelchair and responded well following the rehabilitation regimen. The neurological status remains the same as preoperative.