We report the case of a 68-year-old male butcher presenting with global aphasia, paraplegia, incontinence, excessive sweating two weeks prior to admission, and significant weight loss over eight months. Initial evaluations, including brain CT, lumbar puncture, and neurological studies were inconclusive. Spinal MRI showed L1-L2 spondylodiscitis. Serological tests, cerebrospinal fluid culture, and positive Brucella melitensis PCR supported a neurobrucellosis diagnosis. Treatment with a combination of gentamicin, ceftriaxone, rifampicin, and doxycycline was initiated, followed by outpatient therapy with rifampicin, doxycycline, and sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim for three months. Significant symptom improvement and declining serological titers were observed over two years of follow-up. A 68-year-old male butcher was referred to Farhikhtegan Hospital with sudden global aphasia, paraplegia, incontinency, and excessive sweating two weeks prior to admission, while he was bedridden. On arrival, decreased level of consciousness was evident as he was lethargic with spontaneous eye opening, but speech was dysarthric, and he was confused and agitated. No lateralizing or focal neurological signs were observed. The patient was in good health until eight months earlier, when he developed back pain in the mid-lumbar region without prior episodes. He suffered from bilateral burning sensation in the hips three months prior to admission followed by progressive lower limb weakness and paraparesis, which advanced to paraplegia over two weeks. His wife reported prominent weight loss of 20 kg during the preceding five months, accompanied by diaphoresis, but denied fevers or chills. The patient had been hospitalized twice (an overall of 3 months) with back pain, fatigue, and weakness of the lower limbs during this course. Several initial evaluations were unrevealing (Table 1). He had no significant past medical history and took no regular medications, although there was a history of drug addiction to an unknown substance.Table 1Laboratory findings.Table 1ResultReference valueHemoglobin13.3W.B.C6900Neutrophils66Lymphocytes29ESR 1 h67CRP90Procalcitonin0.11< 0.5Blood CultureNegativeUrine AnalysisNormalUrine CultureNegativeHIV AbNegativePPD1IGRA, QuantiferoneWright Agglutination0.341/640Negative: < 0.35< 1/80Coombs-Wright1/1280< 1/160 in non-endemic regions < 1/320 in endemic regions2ME1/640< 1/40 Laboratory findings. Given the paraplegia and dysarthria, neurological causes were considered first. A non-contrast brain CT scan was performed immediately, though no signs of acute cerebrovascular events or tumors were detected. Further diagnostic studies followed. Although lumbar puncture (LP) was performed (Table 2) due to persistent neurological deficits, it did not initially indicate typical features of meningitis. Doppler sonography of the neck arteries showed no significant carotid stenosis and lower extremity Doppler sonography was also was unremarkable. Deep tendon reflex examinations were normal. Electromyography and nerve conduction velocity (EMG-NCV) studies to evaluate polyneuropathies (namely Guillain-Barré syndrome) was inconclusive. ECG, echocardiography, and abdominopelvic sonography were of no significance. Lumbosacral, thoracic, cervical, and brain MRIs were performed due to lack of any progress in the patient's state. In brain MRI, there was apparent microvascular occlusion ischemia in the initial segments of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory (Fig. 1). In addition, Spinal MRI reported multiple anomalies. The most prominent involvement was disc height loss with soft endplate marrow edema, and erosion at T6-T7 and L1-L2 levels (Fig. 2) mostly in favor of spondylodiscitis.Table 2CSF analysis.Table 2ResultsReference valueColorclearAppearancecolorlessTotal WBC Count< 5Adult: up to 5 cellsRBC Count30CSF Glucose3350–80CSF Protein4515–60CSF CultureBrucella spp. isolatedWright1/40< 1/80Brucella PCRpositive for Brucella melitensisFig. 1Brain MRI: periventricular, left side centrum semi oval white matter and post central gyrus lesions mostly in favor of microvascular occlusive ischemia in the MCA territory (e.g., lenticulostriate artery) - mild cortical atrophy and ventriculomegaly are also noted.Fig. 1Fig. 2Lumbosacral MRI: disc height loss with sub endplate marrow edema and erosion at L1-L2 level mostly in favor of spondylodiscitis.Fig. 2 CSF analysis. Brain MRI: periventricular, left side centrum semi oval white matter and post central gyrus lesions mostly in favor of microvascular occlusive ischemia in the MCA territory (e.g., lenticulostriate artery) - mild cortical atrophy and ventriculomegaly are also noted. Lumbosacral MRI: disc height loss with sub endplate marrow edema and erosion at L1-L2 level mostly in favor of spondylodiscitis. Upon repeated CSF analyses, the total white blood cell count remained within normal limits, yet the glucose level was consistently low. This unexpected finding raised our suspicion of an atypical infectious etiology affecting the spinal cord despite the absence of typical meningitis features in attention to the occupational history. After abundant medical work-up and excluding neurological etiologies, serologic tests were requested with a special attention to tuberculosis and brucellosis involving the vertebral column (Table 1). Wright’s titer was 1/640, Coombs Wright was 1/1280, and 2-mercaptoethanol (2ME) was 1/640, consistent with brucellosis. However, blood cultures and PCR for Brucella melitensis were negative. Over time, CSF culture yielded Brucella spp., and PCR confirmed Brucella melitensis (Table 2). Initially, we suspected that Brucella-induced spondylodiscitis at L1-L2 was the primary source that had secondarily progressed to neurobrucellosis through local extension. Thereafter, a vertebral tissue biopsy was obtained but was negative for brucellosis. These findings suggest that the neurological involvement may have resulted from direct hematogenous dissemination to the central nervous system rather than contiguous spread from the spine. Overall, diagnosis of neurobrucellosis was established. Treatment was initiated with a of combination antibiotic regimen consisting of gentamicin 240 mg/day, ceftriaxone 4 g/day, rifampicin 600 mg/day, doxycycline 200 mg/day for 7 days during hospitalization. Thereafter, outpatient treatment with rifampicin, doxycycline, and sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim 1600/320 mg/day was extended for 3 months. No adverse effects were reported during antibiotic therapy. We followed the patient two weeks after discharge, and then in routine 3 month interval via clinical visits and laboratory assessment. He consistently expressed satisfaction with significant amelioration of symptoms relapse or recurrence, accompanied by decreasing trend of serological tests and no major complication. Wright agglutination test, Coombs Wright, and 2ME all diminished to normal range of 1/40 after two years.