A 39-year-old female with mild diabetes presented to us with back pain and bilateral leg pain with numbness of 3-year duration. She was thoroughly investigated and after a trial of conservative treatment failed to relieve her symptoms, she was advised surgery. X-rays ( Fig. 1 ) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lumber spine (LS) ( Fig. 2 ) showed left postero-lateral disc extrusion with inferior migration and canal stenosis L4–5. The patient underwent posterior decompression, stabilization, and interbody fusion L4–5. The postoperative period was uneventful and patient was mobilized and discharged. Plain radiographs of lumbosacral spine—AP and lateral views showing decreased lordosis, calcified posterior annulus L4–5. AP, anteroposterior. MRI LS spine T2 weighted images showing extruded and inferior migrated disc fragment, facet effusion and stenosis. LS, lumber spine; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. Six weeks later she presented with fever, back pain, and left leg pain with raised erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein. There was serous discharge from the wound. Contrast MRI ( Fig. 3 ) showed hyperintensity at L4–5 disc with an abscess dorsal to the dura. Six weeks post-surgery contrast MRI LS spine T2-weighted images showing epidural collection with peripheral enhancement dorsal to the dura with disc hyperintensity at L4–5. LS, lumber spine; MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. In view of surgical site infection, thorough debridement was done. Samples sent for microbiological and fungal cultures grew A. terreus , sensitive for voriconazole. Microbiologist and infection control specialist's opinions taken. Antifungal drug sensitivity with minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values is available in very few centers in the world and is not available in our region, 3 years ago. According to Berkow EL and Lockhart SR et al 8 , identifying the pathogen accurately can sometimes allow for the empirical selection of an antifungal drug without requiring susceptibility testing. For instance, in the United States, Aspergillus is typically treated with voriconazole empirically, as resistance to this antifungal has not been widely observed. Furthermore, for fungal pathogens lacking established interpretive criteria, such as breakpoints or epidemiological cutoff values, obtaining an MIC value might not provide a definitive clinical interpretation. Moreover, voriconazole is a first-line treatment according to Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guidelines for Aspergillus species. 9 Hence, the patient was started on intravenous voriconazole for 2 weeks followed by oral therapy. Six weeks after starting antifungal therapy, the patient was significantly relieved of her leg pain but moderate back pain persisted. A contrast MRI ( Fig. 4 ) revealed a 10 mm intradural granuloma at L3 level and hyperintensity of L4–5 disc. Blood parameters gradually returned to normal with no constitutional symptoms. The patient was closely monitored and oral antifungal therapy was continued for a total duration of 6 months as advised by infectious disease specialists. At the end of 6 months of antifungal therapy, the patient had no fever or any back pain, with normal blood parameters and hence was decided to stop the therapy. Follow-up contrast MRI LS spine sagittal images showing intradural granuloma behind L3 body with reduced bony and disc edema. At three and half years post-surgery, there was no relapse and ( Fig. 5 ) the patient was asymptomatic and was back to her activities of daily living. Three and half year follow-up X-ray showing no evidence of any bony destruction or implant loosening.