A 46-year-old woman, 57 kg, 164 cm (body mass index [BMI] 21 kg·m−2), American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I, presented for elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy (symptomatic biliary colic). Medical history was unremarkable: no respiratory, cardiac or neurological disease, no medication allergies, and good exercise tolerance (cardiorespiratory documentation available; electrocardiogram [EKG] and laboratory tests normal). Airway findings were favorable: Mallampati II, mouth opening >3 cm, no predictors of difficult ventilation/intubation. No previous anesthesia complications. The patient categorically refused general anesthesia and provided a specific written informed consent for the regional anesthesia option based on lumbar spinal anesthesia and regional block, as an alternative and consented to publication of anonymized data. To attenuate phrenic-mediated diaphragmatic irritation and shoulder pain during laparoscopy, an ultrasound-guided intermediate cervical plexus block was performed unilaterally (right side) using 0.15% ropivacaine (20 mL). No complications occurred (vascular puncture, paresthesia, phrenic palsy). After that, the patient was introduced to the operating room and, while in sitting position, a midline lumbar puncture was performed at the L2–L3 interspace using a 27-G spinal needle. A hypobaric mixture (4 mL volume) was prepared by dilution of ropivacaine 5 mg (1 mL 0.5% ropivacaine), together with dexmedetomidine 10 µg (1 mL), dexamethasone 2 mg (1 mL), and sterile water (1 mL). After intrathecal injection, the patient maintained a sitting position for 2 minutes to favor controlled cephalad migration of the hypobaric solution toward a targeted upper thoracic sensory level (T6) while vital parameters were strictly monitored. When the sensory block (pinprick and cold test) reached the desired level, she was put in a supine position with mild Trendelenburg, to control further spread of the local anesthetic. The patient reported an almost complete motor block of the limbs. Sedation was obtained through intravenous midazolam 2 mg and propofol infusion 1 mg/kg/h, and spontaneous ventilation with supplemental oxygen (fraction of inspired oxygen [Fio2] 0.4) was maintained throughout. Standard monitoring (noninvasive blood pressure, EKG, pulse-oximetry, Etco2 by nasal sampling) was applied. Surgery proceeded uneventfully. Pneumoperitoneum pressures were ≤12 mm Hg. Hemodynamic and respiratory parameters remained stable. Heart rate: 72 to 90 bpm; systolic blood pressure 120 to 140 mm Hg; Spo2 97% to 100% on nasal oxygen; Etco2 38 to 43 mm Hg. No episodes of bradycardia, hypotension, or need for vasopressors. Modified Ramsay Sedation Scale (RSS) level 2. The patient reported no shoulder pain, and the surgical conditions were rated excellent by the operating surgeon. No airway interventions (no laryngeal mask, no endotracheal tube) were necessary. Total anesthesia time was 65 minutes; surgical time was 40 minutes. No clinically significant diaphragmatic impairment was observed. No opioids were administered intraoperatively. In the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), the patient remained fully alert (RSS level 1) under normal spontaneous breathing. The patient was discharged from PACU with an ALDRETE-score of 10 and without motor block (2 hours after the spinal anesthesia). In the ward, no postoperative nausea/vomiting, pruritus, headache, or urinary retention were recorded in the following 24 hours. Postoperative numeric rating scale (NRS) pain scores were 0 to 2 at rest and during deep breathing for 24 hours. Motor recovery was rapid and mobilization began within 6 hours. Intravenous paracetamol alone (1 g per 3 times/d) provided adequate postoperative analgesia; no rescue opioids were required. The patient was discharged the following day without complications and a highly favorable satisfaction rating.