The patient, a 39-year-old male, reported a 1-month history of persistent left-sided sciatica, significantly limiting his mobility. His symptoms included:•Left lumbar radiculopathy: Persistent sciatica affecting the left lower limb.•Neurological deficits: Reduced sensation in the L4 and L5 dermatomal pattern and diminished muscle strength (grade 4/5) in the left lower limb.•Gait difficulties: Progressive difficulty with ambulation due to pain and motor deficits. Left lumbar radiculopathy: Persistent sciatica affecting the left lower limb. Neurological deficits: Reduced sensation in the L4 and L5 dermatomal pattern and diminished muscle strength (grade 4/5) in the left lower limb. Gait difficulties: Progressive difficulty with ambulation due to pain and motor deficits. The MRI scans conducted before surgery (Fig. 1) revealed an asymmetric left L4-L5 disc herniation. A significant disc fragment had migrated in the dorsal epidural space at the L4 vertebral level, compressing the exiting L5 nerve root. The fragment appeared hyperintense on T2-weighted imaging, suggesting free sequestration rather than contained herniation. Routine preoperative assessments confirmed suitability for surgery, and the patient proceeded with the intervention.Fig. 1Presurgical MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals a mass lesion (arrow) with isointensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the posterior epidural space at the L4-5 level, compressing the dura. (B) Coronal T2-weighted FIESTA (Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition) MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals at the L4-5 level the compression of the dura (arrow). (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image obtained at the level of the migrating disk fragment shows an irregularly shaped mass lesion (arrow), with an isointense signal intensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the left posterior epidural space. (D) Coronal gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material following the left L4 nerve root (arrow). (E) Axial gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation at the disk fragment level shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material (arrow).Fig 1 Presurgical MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals a mass lesion (arrow) with isointensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the posterior epidural space at the L4-5 level, compressing the dura. (B) Coronal T2-weighted FIESTA (Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition) MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals at the L4-5 level the compression of the dura (arrow). (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image obtained at the level of the migrating disk fragment shows an irregularly shaped mass lesion (arrow), with an isointense signal intensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the left posterior epidural space. (D) Coronal gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material following the left L4 nerve root (arrow). (E) Axial gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation at the disk fragment level shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material (arrow). The patient, a 39-year-old male, reported a 1-month history of persistent left-sided sciatica, significantly limiting his mobility. His symptoms included:•Left lumbar radiculopathy: Persistent sciatica affecting the left lower limb.•Neurological deficits: Reduced sensation in the L4 and L5 dermatomal pattern and diminished muscle strength (grade 4/5) in the left lower limb.•Gait difficulties: Progressive difficulty with ambulation due to pain and motor deficits. Left lumbar radiculopathy: Persistent sciatica affecting the left lower limb. Neurological deficits: Reduced sensation in the L4 and L5 dermatomal pattern and diminished muscle strength (grade 4/5) in the left lower limb. Gait difficulties: Progressive difficulty with ambulation due to pain and motor deficits. The MRI scans conducted before surgery (Fig. 1) revealed an asymmetric left L4-L5 disc herniation. A significant disc fragment had migrated in the dorsal epidural space at the L4 vertebral level, compressing the exiting L5 nerve root. The fragment appeared hyperintense on T2-weighted imaging, suggesting free sequestration rather than contained herniation. Routine preoperative assessments confirmed suitability for surgery, and the patient proceeded with the intervention.Fig. 1Presurgical MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals a mass lesion (arrow) with isointensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the posterior epidural space at the L4-5 level, compressing the dura. (B) Coronal T2-weighted FIESTA (Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition) MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals at the L4-5 level the compression of the dura (arrow). (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image obtained at the level of the migrating disk fragment shows an irregularly shaped mass lesion (arrow), with an isointense signal intensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the left posterior epidural space. (D) Coronal gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material following the left L4 nerve root (arrow). (E) Axial gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation at the disk fragment level shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material (arrow).Fig 1 Presurgical MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals a mass lesion (arrow) with isointensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the posterior epidural space at the L4-5 level, compressing the dura. (B) Coronal T2-weighted FIESTA (Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition) MR image of the lumbar spine at the midline plane reveals at the L4-5 level the compression of the dura (arrow). (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image obtained at the level of the migrating disk fragment shows an irregularly shaped mass lesion (arrow), with an isointense signal intensity relative to the intervertebral disk at the left posterior epidural space. (D) Coronal gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material following the left L4 nerve root (arrow). (E) Axial gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR image with fat saturation at the disk fragment level shows a rim enhancement of the epidural disk material (arrow).