We present the case of a 30-year-old primiparous female patient with no significant medical history, who presented six hours post an obstetric epidural with typical postural headaches associated with tinnitus, secondary to a suspected accidental dural puncture. In addition, there was no doubt that the catheter tip was intact on removal from the lumbar region. In view of the symptoms, two EBPs were performed 48 hours apart. A first blood patch was performed under ultrasound guidance, and 22 milliliters of autologous blood were injected, with a sensation of lumbar pressure appearing at the end of the procedure. This lumbar pain was isolated (without associated radiculopathy) but persisted until the day after the procedure and was aggravated by sitting. The improvement in PDPH was temporary, and a second blood patch was performed with 30 milliliters of blood injected before the patient described recurrence of the sensation of lumbar pressure. Forty-eight hours after the second blood patch, the PDPH symptoms resolved definitively, and the low-back pain remained moderate and isolated. Five days after the second blood patch, the patient suddenly complained of increased lumbar pain associated with a stabbing sensation in the lower limbs. Neurological examination revealed pain described as electrical currents, mainly in the S1 and S2 sacral dermatomes of the right leg, exacerbated by right leg flexion. Bilateral plantar cutaneous reflexes were in flexion, and osteotendinous reflexes were normal in both lower limbs. Gait was hesitant with a dodging limp, but there was no evidence of a localized sensory-motor neurological deficit. In addition, the patient remained afebrile. In view of the unusually severe clinical presentation, an MRI of the lumbosacral region was ordered as a matter of urgency. It revealed dorsolateral compression of the cauda equina nerve roots, associated with discrete fibro-cicatricial re-modelling of the L5 and S1 roots bilaterally (Figure 1). (A) Transversal section with the green arrow pointing to the fibrosis of the arachnoid. (B) Sagittal section with the red arrow pointing to compression of the nerve roots of cauda equina. Based on the clinical and radiological findings, a diagnosis of arachnoiditis was made and a pharmacological treatment of analgesics (paracetamol, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and gabapentin) combined with corticosteroids (12 milligrams per day of dexamethasone in three divided doses for five days) was initiated. The clinical course was favorable with complete disappearance of symptoms within weeks of the introduction of medical treatment.