A 28-year-old postpartum female developed acute spastic paraparesis 1 day following spinal anesthesia for an emergency cesarean section. The spinal puncture was attempted twice at the L3–L4 interspace. The magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine revealed hemorrhagic fluid–fluid levels at both the L5–S1 and S1–S2 levels, while the cervicodorsal imaging demonstrated a C6-D5 subdural hematoma resulting in significant cord compression and hyperintense cord signal changes. The patient underwent an emergent decompressive laminectomy for hematoma evacuation from C7 to D4 after which she made a progressive and complete recovery over 6 postoperative months. A 28-year-old healthy female was admitted for an emergency lower-segment cesarean section due to fetal distress. Spinal anesthesia, administered with a 25-gauge Quincke needle at the L3–L4 interspace, required two attempts; 2.5 mL of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine was injected intrathecally. That day, she recovered uneventfully while being kept supine. However, on postpartum day 1, she developed severe aching pain in the upper back, shoulders, and neck, a progressive right (1/5) greater than left (2/5) paraparesis, urinary retention/constipation; accompanied by hyperactive lower extremity reflexes/bilateral Babinski signs, and a complete T4 sensory level to pinprick appreciation. When a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the whole spine was performed, the lumbar study showed hemorrhagic fluid–fluid levels at both L5–S and S1–2 and a C6–T5 subdural hematoma with anterior/right posterolateral components compressing the spinal cord with intrinsic cord hyperintensity (i.e., 7-mm thick [Figures 1 and 2]. The patient underwent an emergent decompressive laminectomy for evacuation of the subdural hematoma from C7 to D4, with a successful dural repair [Figures 1 and 2 ]. Preoperative T2-weighted(a) axial and (b) saggital MRI images of the lumbar spine demonstrate hemorrhagic fluid with fluid–fluid levels within the thecal sac from L5–S1 to S1–S2 levels. (Red arrow in (a)) There is effacement of the adjacent lower cauda equina nerve roots, suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage. (Green arrow in (b)). Preoperative (a) sagittal and (b) axial T2-weighted MRI images of the cervical and dorsal spine demonstrating a subdural hematoma along the thecal sac. The hematoma shows both anterior and right posterolateral components—anteriorly extending from C6 to D2 and posterolaterally from C7 to D5 (red arrow in (a)). There is significant spinal cord compression with associated T2 hyperintensity within the cord parenchyma from C7 to D5, indicating cord edema (Green arrow in (b)). By the 3rd postoperative day, lower limb power was 3/5 bilaterally, but it required 6 months for her to attain nearly full power, except for residual hypoesthesia in the left leg below T12. The MRI performed at the 8th postoperative month documented resolution of the subdural hematoma but with residual focal intramedullary hyperintense signal/ myelomalacia from D1 to D4 [Figure 3]. MRI Cervical Spine – (a) sagittal (red arrow) and (b) axial (green arrow) images, and (c) MRI Dorsal Spine – sagittal (yellow arrow) and (d) axial (blue arrow) images, showing resolution of subdural hematoma with residual focal intramedullary hyperintense signals from D1 to D4 levels, suggestive of sequelae of subdural compression–induced myelomalacia (8-month follow-up).