We describe an 8-year-old male patient presenting with bilateral lower limb weakness, areflexia, urinary incontinence, and progressive respiratory decline, leading to intubation and mechanical ventilation. A lumbar puncture indicated elevated protein and zero cells, Brain and spinal MRI revealed enhancement of the cauda equina roots consistent with GBS. Despite treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), his condition worsened. Rabies was suspected after a history of a stray dog scratch two months prior and a nuchal biopsy confirmed the diagnosis. The patient’s condition worsened, and he developed seizures, heart block, and cardiorespiratory arrest, leading to death on hospital day 17. An 8-year-old male patient from Palestine, with no significant past medical history was in good health until 10 days ago when he developed undocumented fever and hypoactivity. He visited an outpatient clinic, was treated for tonsillitis, and discharged on unknown oral antibiotics for three days. The following day, his mother observed abnormal gait and bilateral symmetrical lower limb weakness, eventually leading to his inability to stand. He presented to the emergency department of another hospital, where he was found to have bilateral lower limb weakness with areflexia. Muscle power was assessed using the Medical Research Council (MRC) scale, showing a grade of 1/5 in the lower limbs and 3/5 in the upper limbs, alongside urinary incontinence and a positive gag reflex, with no signs of encephalopathy. A lumbar puncture revealed elevated protein (69 mg/dL) with normal glucose and zero cells. In addition, brain and spinal Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed enhancement of the anterior roots of the cauda equina, findings consistent with a diagnosis of GBS (Figs. 1 and 2). The patient was treated with two doses of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). He was febrile upon admission, and a full septic workup was conducted. He was started on IV ceftriaxone but continued to experience high-grade fever daily, leading to his admission to our pediatric intensive care unit (PICU). Fig. 1A Normal Sagittal T2 weighted image of the cervical and thoracic spine. B Post contrast T1 weighted image of the lumbar spine shows cauda equina nerve roots enhancement A Normal Sagittal T2 weighted image of the cervical and thoracic spine. B Post contrast T1 weighted image of the lumbar spine shows cauda equina nerve roots enhancement Fig. 2A Brain MRI: Normal axial T2/FLAIR weighted image. B Brain MRI: Normal axial T2 weighted image A Brain MRI: Normal axial T2/FLAIR weighted image. B Brain MRI: Normal axial T2 weighted image During the hospital stay, the patient exhibited a gradual deterioration in his respiratory function. He developed dysarthria, had a weak gag reflex, experienced drooling, and showed bradypnea. His level of consciousness decreased (Glasgow coma scale (GCS) 10/15), and he had absent deep tendon reflexes and anisocoria, characterized by right-sided mydriasis that was non reactive to light, along with oxygen desaturation. Consequently, the patient was intubated and placed on mechanical ventilation. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood samples were sent to the laboratory to investigate the cause of his encephalitis (Table 1) and Azithromycin (300 mg) was administered once daily via nasogastric tube for five days. An urgent brain CT scan with IV contrast was performed but revealed no abnormalities. The anisocoria was considered part of GBS with ophthalmoplegia, and a GQ1b test was ordered and back to be negative. Table 1Cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples analysis resultsTestValueNormal rangeCMV IgMNegative-CMV IgGPositive-EBV IgMNegative-EBV IgGPositive-Mycoplasma IgMPositive-Lumper puncture WBCs, cells/microliter37 (94% lymph, 6% PMN)0–5 RBCs, cells/microliter2000–10 Protein, mg/dL227315–45 Glucose, mg/dL7540–70 PCR tests for viral panelNegative- Cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples analysis results By day 8, there were concerns about a new brain insult, prompting an urgent brain MRI with IV contrast. This MRI showed a prominent ventricular system (most noticeable in the lateral ventricles) with minimal subependymal edema. On the same day, the family reported that the patient had a history of being scratched by a stray dog two months ago on the face and scalp. He had sought medical attention at outpatient clinics and was treated with Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid, but he did not receive a vaccine or immunoglobulin. During this period, the patient experienced a febrile illness that was treated as tonsillitis and exhibited increased agitation and anxiety, although he had no insomnia or excessive salivation, and no additional symptoms were reported. There was no further information available about the dog. On examination, the patient was found to have a linear hyperpigmented scar near the right eye and a hypertrophied skin lesion on the right parietal area (at the site of the previous dog scratch). Additionally, a small laceration was noted on the left parietal area. Given these cutaneous findings, rabies infection was suspected. Blood, urine, and CSF specimens were sent for analysis, including cultures, viral PCR panels all of which returned negative results. A nuchal biopsy was then performed for rabies testing, which subsequently confirmed a positive result, leading to a new diagnosis of rabies infection. From hospital day 9 to day 16, the patient experienced focal convulsions characterized by eye blinking occurring three times. the patient also developed bradycardia; An ECG revealed a complete heart block. In response to the bradycardia, Laboratory tests were conducted (Table 2) and it was concluded that the patient had SA node dysfunction likely secondary to toxins, so He was started on an isoproterenol infusion at 0.1 mcg/kg/min. Despite these interventions, the patient continued to have a complete heart block. Table 2Laboratory tests resultsTestResultNormal rangeCK-MB44.6 U/L0–25 U/LTroponin11.8 ng/ml< 0.04 ng/mlTSH0.06 mIU/L0.4-4.0 mIU/LFree T414.8 pmol/L10–23 pmol/LFree T31.96 pmol/L4.1–8.0 pmol/L Laboratory tests results By day 17, the patient suffered a sudden cardiorespiratory arrest. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was performed according to Paediatric advanced life support (PALS) guidelines; however, the rhythm progressed to pulseless electrical activity and asystole. Unfortunately, despite resuscitation efforts, the patient died.