A 34-year-old female presented with a history of an in vitro fertilization (IVF) pregnancy of 22 weeks’ gestation complaining of acute lower backache for three days and a six-hour history of pain radiating down the back of both legs, worse on the left side. She complained of weakness in both legs and difficulty urinating. Her pregnancy up until then had proceeded without any complications. Clinical examination revealed reduced power 4/5 in myotomes of L4, L5 and S1. There was decreased sensation in dermatomes L5, S1, S2, and S3. PR examination revealed decreased perianal sensation and reduced anal tone. Ankle reflexes were absent bilaterally. A urinary catheter was inserted with a residual volume of 1000 ml. An MRI scan was performed with sagittal and axial images showing a large disc protrusion/extrusion at the L5/S1 level, completely filling the spinal canal (Figure 1, Figure 2). The patient was evaluated from an obstetric and anaesthetic point of view and, after informed consent was obtained, was taken to theatre for urgent decompression. MRI scan and transfer to theatre occurred within two hours of presentation, eight hours after onset of CES symptoms. The patient was positioned prone on a Montreal mattress with the abdomen placed in the hollow in order to avoid excessive pressure on the abdomen and uterus. A left paraspinal approach was used and a single intraoperative X-ray taken with the image intensifier in order to confirm the level. A left L5/S1 laminotomy was performed. The S1 nerve root was retracted and a large sequestrated disc was identified and excised (Figure 3). The disc space was cleared of any remaining disc and the nerve canal decompressed. A large volume of disc material was obtained (approximately 3.1 cm). Symptomatic improvement was reported immediately after surgery, with leg pains much improved. Urinary catheterisation was continued for two weeks post-operatively and sluggish bowel movements were managed with simple laxatives. T.E.D. anti-embolism stockings and low molecular weight heparin were administered in the post-operative period to reduce the risk of thromboembolic events. Lower limb weakness improved and was reported as normal after one week. Saddle anaesthesia and bladder sensation improved within two weeks, and complete bladder voiding was monitored with bladder ultrasound. The remainder of the pregnancy proceeded uneventfully, and a healthy baby was delivered by elective caesarean section at 38 weeks’ gestation. Clinical review at four months post-operatively revealed a complete resolution of symptoms apart from some mild back pain, with full recovery of bladder and bowel symptoms.