A 67-year-old man with hip osteoarthritis presented with severe worsening left hip pain and was unable to ambulate. On examination, he had severe left hip pain with hip rotation and restricted range of motion with 1 cm shortening of the left lower extremity. A detailed spine-focused neurologic examination was deferred due to the suspicion of hip pathology over the spine. X-rays showed severe hip osteoarthritis (Figures 1, 2). The patient elected to proceed with left total hip arthroplasty (THA) using an anterolateral (Hardinge) approach (Figures 3, 4). At his routine two-week postoperative visit, he was thrilled to be experiencing no hip pain and was ambulating with a cane. He did mention paresthesia and some numbness on the medial aspect of his left shin but reported that the numbness could have been present preoperatively but was masked by pain. On examination, he had weakness of hip flexion and knee extension. These were assumed to be transient muscle weakness due to recent anterior hip surgery. The dorsiflexion and plantarflexion of the ankle were normal. The X-ray showed an uncomplicated THA in satisfactory alignment. The patient was educated on anterior hip precautions and instructed to weight bear as tolerated and ambulate with a cane. A referral to physical therapy (PT) was provided for progressive strengthening and to improve the range of motion in flexion and extension. At five weeks postoperatively, he was still experiencing persistent numbness in the left leg below the knee anteriorly and posteriorly, which was more obvious to him, and left knee extension weakness, which was worsening. However, he was ambulating well with a cane in his right hand and denied any pain. He demonstrated an upright posture with a level pelvis and no significant leg length discrepancy. Symptoms were not improving despite PT. On examination, left knee extension showed an extensor lag of 10 degrees with grade 4+ strength in knee extension. On sensory examination, the patient had 50% numbness in the left leg below the knee anteriorly and posteriorly to the ankle in the L4 distribution. The neurologic examination of the left ankle and foot was normal. Straight leg test was negative for radicular pain or leg pain. An electromyography (EMG) nerve conduction study was ordered to differentiate femoral nerve neuropraxia from spine etiology. The patient wanted to continue with PT. Ten days later, he reported a fall on his back and progressive left leg weakness and paresthesia in the left leg below the knee. On examination, left knee extension was now grade 3, with new ankle dorsiflexor weakness grade 4. He had an absent left knee jerk. He had progressive knee extensor weakness and new-onset ankle and foot weakness and numbness on the anterior medial shin on the left leg, primarily in the L4 dermatome. The straight leg test was negative. Urgent lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was ordered to evaluate for compressive neurologic etiology, which showed a left-sided disc extrusion with the compression of L3 and L4 nerve roots with multilevel degenerative disc disease (Figure 5). The EMG results additionally showed no evidence of left lower extremity neuropathy with normal left sural sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) and low-amplitude but normal latency and conduction velocity of left peroneal and tibial compound muscle action potential (CMAP) (Tables 1-4) but rather pointed at L5/S1 radiculopathy. Although the EMG indicated L5/S1 radiculopathy, the findings did not align with the patient’s clinical presentation. His primary weakness was in knee extension, which is more consistent with L3/L4 nerve root involvement. Therefore, based on the clinical examination, rather than EMG, the decision was made to operate at the L3/4 level. Due to progressive neurologic symptoms of weakness and numbness, the patient opted for left-sided L3-L4 laminectomy, microdiscectomy, and foraminotomy for the decompression of L3 and L4 nerve roots. The surgery was performed without complication. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging EMG: electromyography His numbness and weakness improved throughout his postoperative course after spine surgery. Twelve days postoperatively, neurologic testing showed improvement in left knee extension and left foot dorsiflexion from grade 3+ to grade 4. His sensation in the left leg L4 and L5 dermatomes showed improvement to about 50% compared to 25% preoperatively. Left knee jerk testing showed muscle response, which was absent preoperatively. At 6.5 months postoperatively, left knee extension was grade 5 with no extensor lag. He had some patchy numbness on the anteromedial shin with sensation returning to about 75%.