A 27-year-old female patient with cervical disc disease associated with C5–C6 and C6–C7. The patient has a history of smoking, an incomplete right bundle branch block, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, premature ventricular contraction, and fibromyalgia, presented to the operating room for anterior decompression and TDA of C5–C6 and C6–C7 for cervical disk disease. There was no history of soft tissue disease. The patient was a 27-year-old right-hand-dominant receptionist for a behavioral health center who presented with neck pain and bilateral upper extremity pain in association with headaches. She had problems with fine dexterity and worsening penmanship. She also noticed herself having a poor gait, running into walls at that time. This started spontaneously in 2015 when she had awoken one morning with symptoms that progressed over time. The patient’s past medical history was relevant for light smoking, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS), as well as fibromyalgia diagnosed at age 14 years. The patient was identified on physical examination to have diminished sensation in the right fourth and fifth finger (C8) and the left shoulder, radial aspect of forearm, thumb, index finger, and middle finger (C5 and C6). The reflex examination was 2+ throughout except for the left biceps and triceps which were 3+. The patient had 5/5 strength in all muscle groups in the upper and lower extremities. There was tenderness of the paraspinal musculature posteriorly. The patient had limited range of motion on account of pain in the neck. Patient was determined to have cervical disc disease with disk disease associated with C5–C6 and C6–C7 (Figures 1,2). T2 sagittal magnetic resonance imaging demonstrating herniated disc of C5–C6 and C6–C7. Pre-operative spectrometry scan identifying disc disease of C5–C6 and C6–C7 vertebrae. Prior conservative management included 60 physical therapy visits, massage therapy, anti-inflammatory medications, lyrica, flexeril, and epidural steroid injections. Anesthesia rated the airway as a class II and the patient as an American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) 2. The patient was taken to the operative room where she underwent a general endotracheal anesthesia without complications. Anesthesia used 4 cmH2O positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)/continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) for ventilation. The patient was properly positioned onto an AMSCO table to supine position with 30 degrees of flexion at the waist with the neck in slight extension. The normal sterile prep and draping process was followed. The left side of the neck was approached with the transverse incision along Langer’s lines. Bleeders were electrocauterized. The platysma musculature was transected utilizing electrocautery. And a deep dissection was obtained deep to platysma musculature utilizing Metzenbaum scissor dissection and an interval was developed between the tracheoesophageal complex versus the sternocleidomastoid/carotid sheath. Omohyoid muscle was identified but superior to the concern area, and a dissection was obtained posterior to the tracheoesophageal complex. The loose areolar tissue was partitioned using finger dissection. Bleeders were electrocauterized using unipolar and bipolar electrocautery as necessary. An anterior-to-posterior Caspar pin was placed into the vertebral body of C5 and then C6 under C-arm intensification, distraction was applied across this area. A discectomy was achieved utilizing electrocautery, 15 blade, pituitary rongeurs, curettes, and a series of Kerrison rongeurs, including 1- and 2-mm Kerrison rongeurs. Curved curettes were utilized to determine the adequacy of foraminotomies. A Valsalva maneuver was applied, and there was no evidence for incidental durotomy. Trials were inserted into the disc space using a lumbar disc replacement (LDR) system (Zimmer, Warsaw, IN, USA). The 5 mm × 15 mm × 50 mm LDR total disc arthroplasty was inserted into C5–C6 without complications. This process was repeated at C6–C7. Central alignment was accomplished. The tracheoesophageal complex was investigated, and no breach was determined. However, the patient had some air coming from the inferior aspect of the wound that was cyclical with the anesthesia ventilations. There was not a distinct link seen in this area. Valsalva was applied and there was no problem with the tracheoesophageal area. An upright fluoroscopic chest X-ray (CXR) was obtained and there was no pneumothorax identified in the operating room as determined with c-arm intensification (Figure 3). Anterior-posterior view of cervical spine and chest during operation; not demonstrating pneumothorax. The patient has the head of the bed elevated at 30 degrees. Despite the non-identification of a pneumothorax in the operating room on fluoroscopy (Figure 3), the patient was noted to have a right-sided pneumothorax of approximately 4 cm (about 1.57 inches) on a subsequent upright chest radiograph in the recovery room (Figure 4). The patient did not have decompensation of vital signs, with her lowest oxygen saturation being 94%. The patient did not have major sequelae of this other than to require a pigtail chest tube placed by interventional radiology under the recommendation of a cardiothoracic surgeon consultation (Figure 5). The patient responded well and discontinued the chest tube within 24 hours. The chest tube was removed by the interventional radiologist once they were determined to be stable upon inspection with additional CXRs (Figure 6). Post-operative upright radiograph demonstrating right pneumothorax. Arrows indicate the borders of the lung where collapsed. AP, anterior-posterior. Computed tomography-guided pigtail insertion by interventional radiology. Anterior-posterior view portable upright X-ray captured after chest tube was taken out, demonstrating resolution of pneumothorax. AP, anterior-posterior. No other complications were identified post-operatively (Figure 7). The patient’s radiculopathy and myelopathy resolved with resolution of the neck pain, and she has returned to work as a case manager. Three months post-operative radiograph. MKL, mild kyphotic loss of cervical lordosis. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Declaration of Helsinki and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for the publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.