A 20-year-old man presented to the emergency department of a large inner city teaching hospital complaining of weakness and sensory disturbance affecting his lower limbs which had gradually progressed over the preceding 7 days. The patient described initial altered sensation in his left foot with associated limp which, over a period of 4 days, developed to painful paraesthesia of his entire left leg. On the morning of attending hospital, he reported a complete loss of sensation to both legs and an inability to stand or walk. At this time, there was associated urinary incontinence. He required being carried into the emergency department due to bilateral limb weakness. He was fit and well prior to this, except for a single episode of pharyngitis and tonsillar exudate 14 days preceding initial neurological symptoms, which fully resolved with 7 days of oral phenoxymethylpenicillin (500 mg four times daily). There was no history of recent travel or unwell contacts. He had been immunized fully in line with the standard UK vaccination schedule including coronavirus disease 2019 vaccination. There was no family history of inherited conditions including no previous familial neurological condition. He had one female sexual partner of around 2 months, was heterosexual and reported no unprotected sex. There was no evidence of genital blistering or ulceration, and he did not report any genitourinary symptoms. On examination, he was noted to have Medical Research Council (MRC) grade 0/5 power in both lower limbs, with complete sensory loss (pin prick, light touch, vibration and proprioception) from the T10 through S5 dermatomes. Both legs were areflexic with flaccid muscle tone. He was found to be in urinary retention, requiring urinary catheterization and was incontinent of faeces. He was febrile with a temperature of 38.8 °C, and observations were otherwise within normal parameters. Computed tomography head scanning was performed with intravenous contrast and was unremarkable. Blood laboratory results, including full blood count, C-reactive protein, liver function and renal function, were essentially within normal limits, while CSF results can be found in Table 1, although viral PCR results were not available at this point. Empirical treatment was started (once daily unless stated otherwise): intravenous ceftriaxone 2 g twice daily, intravenous aciclovir 10 mg kg−1 three times daily, oral dexamethasone 10 mg twice daily, oral rifampicin 720 mg, oral isoniazid 300 mg, oral pyrazinamide 1,800 mg, oral ethambutol 1,200 mg, oral pyridoxine 10 mg. At this point, the working diagnosis was a central nervous system (CNS) infection, such as CNS tuberculosis, but other common bacterial and viral pathogens were also covered with the empirical regimen. At day 10 of admission, he reported new paraesthesia to both feet which progressed over the following 2 days to involve his entire lower limbs. On day 12, he was noted to have light touch and pinprick sensation to the soles of both feet. On day 13, it was noted that motor function was recovering with hip adduction power bilaterally at MRC grade 1/5. Direct Gram staining of CSF was negative, and bacterial culture was performed with no growth of bacterial pathogens by 48-h incubation. Bacterial PCR was negative for Haemophilus influenzae, Neisseria meningitidis and Streptococcus pneumoniae. A total of 10 ml of CSF was sent for mycobacterial culture with no growth at 42-day incubation. The CSF samples underwent PCR testing using an in-house assay for HSV-1, HSV-2, varicella zoster virus, enteroviruses and parechoviruses. HSV-2 was detected in the first CSF sample at a cycle threshold (Ct) of 22.2. The patient was extensively investigated for infectious and autoimmune conditions, and the results can be found in Table 2. All tests performed on samples collected during admission, except where specified otherwise for HSV serology. *Ganglioside screen includes GM1 IgG, GM2 IgG, GD1a IgG, GD1b IgG, GQ1b IgG, GM1 IgM, GM2 IgM, GD1a IgM, GD1b IgM and GQ1b IgM. †Neuronal antibodies include anti-HU, anti-Yo, anti-RI, anti-CV2, anti-MA2TA, anti-amphiphysin, anti-SOX1, anti-recoverin and anti-titin. IgG, immunoglobulin G; IgM, immunoglobulin M; rDNA, ribosomal deoxyribonucleic acid. Electromyography showed mild abnormalities in lower limb motor studies with preserved sensory studies but no clear motor activity in the lower limbs in keeping with a central pathology. T1, T2, diffusion weighted, short tau inversion recovery magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head and spine with gadolinium enhancement was performed with findings largely confined to within the brain stem and spinal cord. There were multiple intramedullary cord lesions. The appearances were in keeping with a diagnosis of ADEM (Fig. 1). Predominant spinal involvement and enhancement of the spinal meninges are uncommon features but previously described [1314]. A repeat lumbar puncture was performed on day 26 of admission, prior to completion of intravenous antiviral therapy. CSF testing results across the admission are summarized in Table 1. CSF microscopy with Gram staining, bacterial culture and viral PCR screen, excluding HSV-2, remained negative throughout. MRI at this time showed interval improvement in intracranial and spinal appearances, with no new evidence of leptomeningeal enhancement and previous findings less appreciable in keeping with response to treatment. Treatment was rationalized as culture results became available, with tuberculosis treatment continuing until negative mycobacterial culture. Intravenous aciclovir was continued for a total of 28 days before being switched to 500 mg valaciclovir once daily for a total of 6 months. Dexamethasone was discontinued at day 10 after liaison with the clinical neurology service. He underwent extensive physiotherapy and had a gradual progressive improvement in motor and sensory function. On day 90 of admission, the patient was transferred to the physical disability rehabilitation unit (PDRU). At this time, he had MRC grade 2/5 bilateral lower limb weakness with normal sensation to pinprick and light touch, although he remained areflexic with flaccid muscle tone in T10-S5 myotomes. He remained catheterized due to multiple failed trials without catheter and was intermittently incontinent of faeces. The patient underwent a further 45 days of physical rehabilitation in the PDRU. By the time of discharge, power had improved to MRC grade 4/5 on his right and 3/5 on his left lower limb. He was mobilizing with a wheelchair and was independent with all transfers and self-care. Bowel function normalized; however, the patient continued to require intermittent self-urinary catheterization 2–3 times weekly due to incomplete bladder emptying. The patient made continued improvement over the next 3 years. His leg power had progressed to MRC grade 5/5 on the right and 4+/5 on the left and he had become independently mobile with elbow crutches. He was able to drive, work in retail for around 5 h per day and attend a gym. However, neurological sequelae, in the form of lower limb spasticity and chronic urinary retention, remain.