We report the case of a 70-year-old female who presented with lower back pain, right radicular pain, and numbness in the perineal area. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography scans revealed a calcified intradural lesion at the L3 level. The diagnosis of the lesion was not definitive because the patient had no history of gout or manifestations of systemic gout. Surgical removal of the intradural lesion followed by pathological examination confirmed gouty tophi. The postoperative recovery was good, and the patient experienced substantial relief from pain and numbness. The patient was a 70-year-old woman who had experienced lower back pain for 2 years, which was relieved with oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Two months prior, the pain suddenly worsened and radiated to the right buttock and lateral right lower extremity, accompanied by numbness in the perineal area. The symptoms were aggravated by coughing and sneezing. The patient had no history of spinal trauma or gout. She was 147 cm tall and weighed 38 kg, with a BMI of 17.6 kg/m2. On physical examination, we noted the absence of lumbar lordosis, considerable percussion and tenderness at the L2–L5 levels, and a right supine straight leg raise angle of 55°. The pyriformis stretch and femoral nerve traction test results were negative. The patient exhibited decreased superficial sensation in the perineum and normal muscle power in the extremities. No swelling or nodes were observed in the joint examination. Radiographs of the full-length spine revealed thoracolumbar degenerative scoliosis and a pseudoslip of the L4 vertebra (Figures 1a,b). Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a calcified intradural lesion at the L3 vertebral level and L3-S1 disc herniation secondary to lumbar spinal stenosis, predominantly at the L4/5 level (Figure 2). Abdominal color Doppler ultrasonography revealed a small number of urinary salt crystals in the left kidney. However, this finding was not brought to the attention of the doctors as being linked to gout. Preoperative (a,b) and postoperative (c,d) radiographs of the full-length spine. CT (a–c) and MRI (d–f) scan showed a calcified intradural lesion at the L3 vertebral level. On laboratory examination, we found that her serum uric acid level was 146 µmol/L (normal range: 155–357 µmol/L) and her serum creatinine level was 45 µmol/L (normal range: 57–97 µmol/L), both of which were low. Her glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was calculated to be 61.6 ml/min, suggesting mild renal impairment. Infection markers, such as C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and leukocyte count, were within normal ranges. The level of urea was also within the normal range. As the patient was a woman with no history of gout and no elevated blood uric acid, and no other gout tophi were found on physical examination, the calcified intradural mass was not diagnosed as a gout tophus preoperatively but was considered more likely to be a calcified nerve sheath tumor, calcified chordoma, calcified disc prolapse, or calcified ventricular meningioma. During surgery, we removed the spinous processes and lamina at the L2–L5 levels to expose the spinal canal. Upon opening the dura, the lesion was completely excised, revealing a white, irregular, crystalline mass (Figures 3a,b). Subsequently, we corrected the lumbar scoliosis deformity and released the lumbar spinal stenosis using posterior lumbar interbody fusion. The pathological examination revealed a white irregular crystalline mass consisting of urate crystals surrounded by calcified, degenerated, and necrotic nerve cells (Figure 3c). Upon opening the dura, the lesion was a white irregular crystalline mass (a,b). Pathological examination showed the mass consisted of urate crystals surrounded by calcified, degenerated and necrotic nerve tissue (c). Postoperatively, the patient's lower back and radicular pain improved significantly and the pain intensity dropped from 7 to 3 on a 10-point visual analog scale (VAS), but numbness in the perineal area persisted. Postoperative radiographs showed the disappearance of calcification in the spinal canal and correction of the degenerative lumbar scoliosis (Figures 1c,d). The numbness in the perineal area disappeared by the sixth postoperative month.