A 46-year-old Caucasian female with a history of Crohn’s disease, recent right colectomy, and sacroiliitis presented to the emergency department (ED) with two days of lower back pain and numbness/tingling in the bilateral lower extremities. Ambulation was also associated with severe pain. The patient’s back pain had been chronic since her teens, with a history of scoliosis and sciatica. This was confirmed by a recent CT scan, which revealed bilateral sacroiliitis. In the ED, neurological examination revealed urinary incontinence, saddle anesthesia, and decreased rectal tone, suggesting cauda equina syndrome. Neurological examination revealed reduced strength in hip flexion, knee extension, knee flexion, plantar flexion, and bilateral hyporeflexia in the lower extremities. The patient underwent an MRI of the lumbar spine, which did not show any cord compression but revealed an empty thecal sac at L4-L5, a finding that can be seen in patients with inflammatory arthropathy or arachnoiditis (Figures 1A, 1B, 2A-2C). The neurosurgeon indicated that she did not require surgical intervention and was admitted to the hospital for symptom management. From left to right, image A shows initial findings of the patient from a lumbar MRI short tau inversion recovery sequence (STIR) of degenerative disc changes at L4-L5 and peripherally located nerve roots, and image B shows the T2 sequence. From left to right, these images show the initial T2 MRI findings, which reveal peripheral displacement of the nerve roots. Image A is the superior portion of the 4th lumbar vertebra. Image B is the inferior portion of the 4th lumbar vertebra. Image C is the 5th lumbar vertebra. The transition of the images demonstrates an "empty thecal sac" appearance, which can be seen in patients with inflammatory arthropathy as well as arachnoiditis. During her stay, an MRI of the brain and cervicothoracic spine did not reveal any acute abnormalities related to her symptoms. A lumbar puncture was performed at L3-L4 for further work-up of potential infectious and inflammatory causes of symptoms, revealing a total nucleated cell count of 3, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein of 52 mg/dL, CSF glucose of 79 mg/dL, and a negative BioFire test result. With a suspicion of an inflammatory cause for the patient’s symptoms, intravenous methylprednisolone was started. Despite treatment, the patient continued to complain of pain and reported no symptom alleviation. A revisited review of the lumbar spine MRI revealed an unusual appearance of an empty thecal sac, namely, the appearance of a mass effect on the nerves surrounding the periphery of the spinal cord. Computed tomography (CT) myelography showed complete attenuation of contrast-related enhancement below the mid-L4 level, correlating with the region of abnormal cauda equina nerve root displacement and empty thecal sac appearance on recent MRI of the lumbar spine (Figures 3A, 3B). These findings suggested an arachnoid cyst causing complete effacement of the spinal canal at the L4-L5 and L5-S1 levels. From left to right, these images confirm the presence of an arachnoid cyst. Image A is an X-ray myelogram showing intrathecal injection of contrast material for a CT lumbar myelogram. Image B is a CT lumbar myelogram demonstrating complete attenuation of contrast enhancement below the mid-4th lumbar vertebra. The neurosurgeon performed a decompressive laminectomy, medial facetectomy, foraminotomy, and drained the arachnoid cyst to the subarachnoid space via a cyst fenestration and wall excision. The patient reported immediate relief of symptoms after surgery and showed immediate signs of recovery. A repeat MRI of the lumbar spine revealed interval fenestration/resection of the previous arachnoid cyst within the lower lumbar canal and resolution of the previous mass effect on the cauda equina nerve roots, which were no longer peripherally displaced (Figures 4A, 4B). From left to right, these images demonstrate the changes seen after laminectomies and partial medial facetectomies at L4-L5. Image A is the 4th lumbar vertebra. Image B is the 5th lumbar vertebra. The nerve roots are now seen within the spinal canal without peripheral displacement.