Case 1 A 66-year-old female with a history of ILP and decompression at the L3-L4 level six months prior presented with left-sided sacral (Visual Analog Scale (VAS) 8) and leg pain (VAS 8) accompanied by neurogenic claudication and left lower limb weakness (Grade 4-/5) [30]. A diagnostic left L3 nerve root block resulted in temporary symptom relief (VAS 4), but her symptoms recurred shortly thereafter. MRI showed a left-sided FC at the L3-4 level causing nerve root compression. Given her symptoms and failure of conservative measures, surgical intervention was deemed necessary. The patient underwent a UBE surgery with left-sided laminectomy at the L3-4 level to decompress the affected nerve root. The total operative time was 40 minutes. Her symptoms resolved (VAS 1 for lumbar pain and VAS 0 for radicular pain) with no further complications. Her strength improved to full power a few weeks after surgery (Figures 1A-1E, 2A-2D). Case 1: Post-ILP radiographs lateral (A) and AP (B) views taken two months after the first surgery showed preserved segmental motion and minimal translation at the L3-L4 level (A, white circle). Six months postoperative lateral radiographs in neutral (C), flexion (D), and extension (E) position showing slippage progression and dynamic angular instability secondary to the spondylolisthesis at the previously mentioned level (encompassed in the red circle). ILP: interspinous ligamentoplasty, AP: anteroposterior. Sagittal and axial T2-weighted MRI. Preoperative images (L3-4 LSS + DSL Grade 1) (A). Post-ILP decompression state (B). FC (red asterisk *) development and lateral recess stenosis (C). Post-FC resection and lateral recess decompression state (D). LSS: lumbar spinal stenosis, DSL: degenerative spondylolisthesis, ILP: interspinous ligamentoplasty, FC: facet cyst. Case 2 A 48-year-old male with a past medical history of ILP and decompression at L3-5 levels seven months prior presented with persistent sacral pain, progressive lower back discomfort (VAS 6), and left lower limb radicular symptoms (VAS 8). MRI revealed an FC at L3-4 and a left foraminal disc herniation at L4-5. A diagnostic left L4 nerve root block provided transient relief (VAS 3), but symptoms progressed despite conservative management. Revision UBE surgery was performed, consisting of a left-sided decompression at L3-4 to address the FC, and a paraspinal approach at L4/5 to decompress the foramen and exiting nerve root. The operative time for the whole procedure was 120 minutes. The patient experienced significant symptom relief (VAS 1 for back pain and VAS 1 for radicular pain) and improved mobility postoperatively (Figures 3A-3E, 4A-4G). Postoperative ILP X-ray lateral (A) and AP (B) lumbar X-ray views taken two months after the first surgery, showing the artificial ligament placed around spinous processes with preserved segmental motion and minimal translation (A, white circle). Seven months postoperative dynamic views (C-E) showing progression of slippage (red circle). ILP: interspinous ligamentoplasty, AP: anteroposterior. Sagittal and axial T2-weighted MRI preoperative images (L3-4 LSS + DSL Grade 1 and L4-5 foraminal stenosis) (white arrow indicating the L3-4 level) (A) with facet degeneration (B). Sagittal view of the FC lesion location (red circle) after seven months period follow-up (C). Progression timeline axial T2-weighted MRIs: Preoperative (D), Post-ILP (E), FC development (F), and final decompressed lateral recess state (white circle) (G). LSS: lumbar spinal stenosis, DSL: degenerative spondylolisthesis, ILP: interspinous ligamentoplasty, FC: facet cyst. Surgical technique description The patient was positioned prone under general anesthesia. A UBE procedure was performed at the target level under fluoroscopic guidance to ensure accurate localization. Two small incisions were made: one for insertion of the endoscope, arthroscopic sleeve, and irrigation system, and the other for the introduction of surgical instruments and outflow of saline irrigation. The procedure began with minimal drilling of the ipsilateral facet joint and lamina to allow adequate access. Following this, the FC was noticeably identified, and a clean dissection plane was developed between the lesion and the dura. Upon full exposure, the FC was carefully drained and resected. Endoscopic images (Figures 5A-5G) illustrate the FC and its anatomical relationship to the thecal sac and the traversing nerve root. The procedure concluded with endoscopic confirmation of adequate nerve root decompression. The portals were closed using 3-0 nylon sutures. This surgical technique was employed in both cases described above. CT reconstruction of the lumbar spine of a patient with a previous ILP placement. The red dot indicates the location corresponding to the right lateral recess (A). Intraoperative images L3-4 level and endoscopic technique sequence for the FC identification and resection; initial target area location (B), clear cleavage plane preparation between the lesion and the dura (C), FC (red asterisk *) with typical outpouch appearance arising from the joint capsule with surrounding adhesions (D), traversing nerve root widely exposed with surrounding structures visualized (red dot) (E), final decompression state (F), and macroscopic appearance of the resected FC (G). UBE: unilateral biportal endoscopy, ILP: interspinous ligamentoplasty, FC: facet cyst.