A 70-year-old female patient reported of back pain and left lower extremity weakness. The patient's premorbid ambulation status was wheelchair-bound because of right-sided monoparesis caused by a history of CP. Neurological examination revealed grade 1 left-sided hip flexion and knee extension as recent deterioration manifestations and grade 1 right-sided hip flexion and knee extension as a sequela of CP. The plain radiograph showed lumbar scoliosis with a rotational change of L1–L3, sclerotic change of vertebral end plates at T10–T12, and loss of lordosis and kyphosis (Figure 1). CT imaging of the thoracic spine presented vacuum phenomena and height decrease of the intervertebral disks at T10–T12, ossification of the ligament flavum (OLF) at T10–T11 presented with a black arrow (Figure 2, A), degenerative spondylolisthesis at T10–T12 and facet cyst in the lower end plate of T11 vertebra's posterior portion presented with a red arrow (Figure 2, B), facet arthrosis, and marginal osteophytes (Figure 2, C–F). MRI demonstrated severe cord compression at T10–T11, increased high signal intensity in T2-weighted imaging, and ligament hypertrophy at T10–T12, indicating thoracic myelopathy (Figure 3, A–D). No specific findings for degenerative changes were observed on the lumbar lesions (Figure 3, E). We performed total laminectomy and posterior instrumented fusion at T10–T12 with the expectation of alleviating the patient's symptoms and signs (Figure 4, A and B). The open surgical procedure involved decompression through a posterior approach using total laminectomy, pedicle screw instrumentation by the free-hand technique, and posterior fusion using resected autogenous bone and demineralized bone matrix. At the 3-month follow-up, the patient's symptoms had improved, with the motor grade showing a score of 4 for left-sided hip flexion and knee extension. The symptoms remained well improved at both the 6-month and 1-year follow-ups. At the 2-year follow-up, radiological findings showed relieved end plate sclerosis at T10 to T12 (Figure 4, C and D). Anteroposterior radiographic view showing lumbar scoliosis with a rotational change of L1–L3 (Nash-Moe scale grade 1) and sclerotic change of vertebral end plates at T10–T12 (A). Lateral radiographic view showing degenerative changes of intervertebral disk at T10–T12 and loss of lordosis and kyphosis (B). Lateral view of spinal CT showing vacuum phenomena and height decrease of the intervertebral disk at T10–T12 and calcific change of the yellow ligament at T10–T11 (A). Degenerative spondylolisthesis with segmental instability at T10–T12 (B). Axial view of spinal CT demonstrating facet arthrosis and marginal osteophytes (C and D). 3-dimensional reconstruction CT views (E and F). Images showing severe cord compression at T10–T11, increased high signal intensity on T2-weighted imaging, and ligament hypertrophy at T10–T12, indicating thoracic myelopathy (A–D). No specific findings for degenerative changes were observed on the lumbar lesions (E). Postoperative follow-up radiographs showing total laminectomy and posterior instrumented fusion at T10–T12 performed under the diagnosis of thoracic myelopathy (A and B). The radiographs at the 2-year follow-up were relatively stable, and end plate sclerotic changes at T10, T11, and T12 were improved (C and D).