A 70-year-old female with lower back and right lower extremity radicular pain without relevant medical history. Muscle strength and tendon reflexes were normal. Lumbar computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a lumbar dural sac and nerve root compression due to lumbar canal stenosis and lumbar LFH at L3–4. Full-endoscopic laminectomy (FEL) was performed at L3–4 after conservative treatment failed to provide sufficient improvement. Intraoperative observation revealed the presence of a hematoma during removal of the lumbar ligamentum flavum. Postoperatively, the lower back and right lower extremity radicular pain resolved. Postoperative MRI and CT demonstrated tomography revealed decompression of the lumbar dural sac and nerve root. The patient was discharged without any perioperative complications. No recurrence was observed for at least 3 months postoperatively. A 70-year-old female with lower back pain and radicular pain in the anterior aspect of her right leg. There was no history of major trauma, lumbar surgery, or antiplatelet/anticoagulant therapy. Muscle strength was not decreased in either leg and tendon reflex findings were unremarkable. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed right L4 nerve root compression due to a right LFH and lumbar canal stenosis at L3–4 (Figure 1A-1C). Computed tomography (CT) revealed no calcified lesions within the spinal canal at L3–4 (Figure 1D,1E). Conservative treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was initially administered; however, there was insufficient improvement, and a local anesthetic injection into the right L4 nerve root produced a transient improvement in the symptoms. Nevertheless, lower back and radicular pain gradually increased compared to the initial presentation, and the patient underwent FEL under general anesthesia under fluoroscopy. Preoperative magnetic resonance and CT images. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted image, (B) axial T2-weighted image, and (C) three-dimensional phase-balanced steady-state acquisition rewound gradient echo image show right L4 nerve root compression due to a right LFH and lumbar canal stenosis at L3–4. Sagittal and axial views were taken at the level of the yellow line in each view. CT of the (D) sagittal and (E) axial view reveals no calcified lesion within the spinal canal at L3–4. Sagittal and axial views were taken at the level of the red line in each view. CT, computed tomography; LFH, ligamentum flavum hematoma. An approximately 1.0-cm vertical incision was made at 1.0 cm to the right of the midline, followed by the placement of an outer cylinder (external and internal diameter of the outer cylinder 9.9 and 8.9 mm, respectively). The endoscope (endoscope size: 8.4 mm, working channel size: 5.2 mm) was inserted in the outer cylinder. Sufficient bone of the lamina and bilateral facet joint at L3–4 was removed using a diamond bit drill and a Kerrison rongeur for the treatment of coexisting spinal canal stenosis. Approximately 10–15% of the medial corresponding facet joint, 7.0 mm of the caudal L3 lamina and 4.0–5.0 mm of the rostral L4 lamina at L4 (approximately 4.0–5.0 mm) were removed. An intraoperative chronic hematoma draining from the ligamentum flavum on the right side was visible during removal of the ligamentum flavum using a Kerrison rongeur for L4 nerve root decompression (Figure 2, Video 1). This chronic hematoma was confirmed to be discontinuous to the facet joint. The procedure was completed after confirming that the compression of the right L4 nerve root had been released and the drain tube was placed in the wound. Intraoperative endoscopic view showing chronic hematoma draining during removal of the ligamentum flavum using a Kerrison rongeur for L4 nerve root decompression. Intraoperative video showing chronic hematoma draining during removal of the ligamentum flavum using a Kerrison rongeur for L4 nerve root decompression. Immediately after the procedure, the patient mentioned that lower back and radicular pain in the anterior aspect of her right leg had completely disappeared. Postoperative MRI and CT revealed an expanded lumbar canal at L3–4 and decompression of the right L4 nerve root (Figure 3A-3D). The patient was discharged without any perioperative complications. No recurrence was observed for at least 3 months postoperatively. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Helsinki Declaration and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal. Postoperative magnetic resonance and CT images. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted image, (B) axial T2-weighted image, (C) axial CT, and (D) posterior view three-dimensional CT scans show the expanding lumbar canal at L3–4 and decompression of the right L4 nerve root. Sagittal and axial views were taken at the level of the yellow line in each view. CT, computed tomography.