A 52-year-old man was presented to a spinal surgery clinic in December 2011 with severe lower back pain. He had difficulty walking and could not sit for even 5 minutes. He had not responded adequately to conservative treatment including analgesia, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, physical therapy, and epidural injections. He had undergone lateral recess decompression and discectomy at L4-5 2 years ago, with a postoperative complication of a 4 × 10 cm meningocele that had been treated conservatively. The decompression and discectomy had relieved his leg pain, but his back pain gradually increased. The patient had no other significant medical history. Neurological examination results were normal. The patient's clinical picture was suggestive of discogenic back pain. Diagnostic imaging was requested, which revealed disc degeneration at multiple levels, most significantly at L2-3 (Figure 1), and a lumbar curvature with an apex at L2-3 (Figure 2). Furthermore, postdiscectomy changes of L4-5 degeneration, diffuse disc bulge, and bilateral recess stenosis were noted (Figure 3). The source of patient's symptoms was thought to be either the postdiscectomy changes at L4-5 or the advanced degeneration at L2-3. We planned a diagnostic discoblock at L4-5 to confirm the source of pain depending on whether the symptoms resolved. On the next day, the patient was admitted to the operating room to undergo discography and discoblock in the prone position under conscious sedation using fentanyl, ketamine, propofol, and midazolam. Under fluoroscopy guidance, a needle was inserted at L4-5. Using the double needle technique, 2 mL of 2.5% bupivacaine hydrochloride mixed with 1 mL each of cefazolin and iohexol was injected. The needle position was fluoroscopically confirmed, and no leakage was detected (Figure 4). The patient's condition was stable on awakening following the procedure. He reported symptom resolution and could sit comfortably with no pain. This confirmed that the pain originated from L4-5. Therefore, L4-5 interbody fusion with instrumentation was planned for a subsequent date. The patient was kept in the postanesthesia care unit for few hours, following which he was discharged. During discharge, his condition was stable and he could walk without difficulty. Nine hours after the procedure, while at home, the patient began having a severe headache. Subsequently, he experienced agitation, which progressed to confusion, and convulsions. He was brought to the emergency department. There, he had another generalized tonic-clonic seizure, which progressed to status epilepticus. Therefore, treatment with intravenous antiepileptic agents was started. The patient was electively intubated and admitted to the intensive care unit for further management. Brain MRI (Figure 5) revealed SAH predominantly involving the left temporoparietal region as confirmed with CT. Conventional cerebral angiography (Figure 6) did not reveal any vascular malformation or clear source of bleeding. Lumbar puncture and cerebrospinal fluid culture was negative, excluding infectious etiology. Therefore, the patient was treated conservatively. Repeat brain CT performed after 10 days revealed gradual resolution of the SAH without hydrocephalous or increased intracranial pressure. Lumbar spine MRI (Figure 7) findings were unremarkable. The patient was discharged after 13 days. At discharge, he had headache and persistent low back pain and was receiving anticonvulsant medications. One month later, the patient underwent L4-5 decompression, spinal fusion with instrumentation, and transforaminal interbody fusion with no complications.