A previously healthy 22-year-old male from Nepal presented with a sudden-onset, severe headache lasting two days that awakened him from sleep. The headache was associated with repeated vomiting, severe neck pain, stiffness, and photophobia. He also reported mild lower back pain persisting for the prior week, which he had initially disregarded. In the emergency department, he had a single fever spike of 38°C. He denied any recent trauma, spinal procedures, or family history of cranial or spinal pathology. On examination, the patient was fully alert and oriented, with normal cranial nerve function and no focal neurological deficits, aside from exaggerated deep tendon reflexes in the lower extremities. Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis (WBCs 15.7 ×109/L), with otherwise unremarkable parameters. CT of the brain was normal (Figure 1), but due to the clinical presentation, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) was suspected. Figure 1Axial cut of CT scan of the head was unremarkable. Axial cut of CT scan of the head was unremarkable. A lumbar puncture (LP) was performed after multiple attempts, yielding bloody cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF analysis showed 680,000 RBCs/µL, 500 WBCs/µL, and neutrophil predominance. Microbiological studies showed no growth, and CSF centrifugation and spectrophotometry were not performed. These findings were inconclusive between SAH and traumatic tap. CT angiography (CTA) of the head and neck vessels was unremarkable. The patient was admitted for observation and started empirically on IV antibiotics. MRI and MRA of the brain revealed minimal blood in the occipital horns of the lateral ventricles, not visible on the earlier CT. A tiny bleb at the left ICA terminus was noted without adjacent hemorrhage (Figure 2). A diagnostic cerebral angiogram showed ectasia of the left ICA bifurcation, but no definitive vascular lesion to explain the hemorrhage. Figure 2Head MRA- showing left ICA terminus bleb (red arrow), without any surrounding bleed to suggest SAH. Head MRA- showing left ICA terminus bleb (red arrow), without any surrounding bleed to suggest SAH. A repeat LP two days later demonstrated xanthochromia and a high RBC:WBC ratio, consistent with SAH (Figure 3). As no cranial source was identified, attention turned to a spinal origin. Figure 3Repeated LP showed grossly bloody CSF with xanthochromia and high RBCs: WBCs ratio. Repeated LP showed grossly bloody CSF with xanthochromia and high RBCs: WBCs ratio. Spinal MRI revealed perimedullary signal voids and a vascular pouch at the conus medullaris, with intrathecal hemorrhage from mid-thoracic spine to S2 (Figure 4). Spinal angiography revealed a dominant anterior epidural AVF at L3 with a large draining venous pouch, supplied by the left L3 radiculomedullary artery, draining into anterior medullary veins (Figure 5). Two additional slow-flow dural AVFs were identified at L4 and L5, supplied by the right and left iliolumbar arteries, respectively, draining into anterior epidural veins (Figure 6). Figure 4T1 and T2 Sagittal sequences of head MRI showing peri-medullary signal voids and vascular pouch at the level of conus medullares with obvious intrathecal hemorrhage from mid-thoracic level to S2. Figure 5Diagnostic spine angiography showing anterior epidural fistulae with a large draining venous pouch supplied by the left L3 radiculomedullary branch ending in the anterior medullary veins, both superiorly and inferiorly. Figure 6Diagnostic spine angiography shows two more small epidural fistulae at L5 and L4 levels, supplied by the right and left ilio-lumber arteries, respectively. Both fistulae are slow-flowing and drain in the anterior epidural veins. T1 and T2 Sagittal sequences of head MRI showing peri-medullary signal voids and vascular pouch at the level of conus medullares with obvious intrathecal hemorrhage from mid-thoracic level to S2. Diagnostic spine angiography showing anterior epidural fistulae with a large draining venous pouch supplied by the left L3 radiculomedullary branch ending in the anterior medullary veins, both superiorly and inferiorly. Diagnostic spine angiography shows two more small epidural fistulae at L5 and L4 levels, supplied by the right and left ilio-lumber arteries, respectively. Both fistulae are slow-flowing and drain in the anterior epidural veins. Following multidisciplinary discussion, it was decided to embolize the dominant epidural spinal AV fistula first, as it was the presumed source of hemorrhage, followed by addressing other fistulae in future sessions. A flow-guided catheter (Apollo detachable tip catheter) was advanced through the left L3 radiculomedullary branch down to the fistula. A histoacrylic: lipodiol ratio of 2:1 was used to embolise the fistulae by 1.5 cc, and the control angiogram revealed residual feeders along the proximal course of the left radiculomedullary branch. Another flow-guided catheter (Apollo detachable tip catheter) was advanced through the left L3 radiculomedullary branch down to the residual fistula, where another 1 cc of histo-acrylic-lipodiol concentration 2:1 was injected to obliterate the residual fistulae. The final control angiogram revealed complete obliteration of the anterior epidural AV fistula, with a large draining venous pouch supplied by the left L3 radiculomedullary branch (Figure 7). Figure 7Embolization of left L3 AV fistula and venous pouch. Embolization of left L3 AV fistula and venous pouch. Post-procedurally, the patient’s headache and back pain resolved, and he was discharged neurologically intact. He remained symptom-free on follow-up for two years. The remaining two low-flow AVFs at L4 and L5 were initially scheduled for staged elective treatment, either endovascular or surgical, based on accessibility and clinical course. However, since these lesions were incidentally discovered and asymptomatic, the patient elected for conservative management at that time, with plans to reassess if symptoms developed. Unfortunately, the patient returned to Nepal and missed subsequent follow-up appointments, so further treatment and surveillance were not completed.