We present the case of a 27-year-old female with T2 American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) A spinal cord injury (SCI) and chronic spastic dystonia. She was maximized on oral medications without satisfactory control of her painful muscle spasms and was a candidate for ITB trial, which ultimately failed due to the difficulty of accessing the spinal canal due to extensive pseudoarthrosis secondary to thoracic to lumbar fusion. A decision was made to directly implant the pump in the operative room using O-arm–aided neuronavigation to guide catheter access at L5–S1. Currently, at 22 months of follow-up post-pump implant, ITB delivery has led to persistent improvements in her spastic dystonia and many aspects of quality of life. A 27-year-old woman presented to the clinic with chronic spastic paraparesis, following a motor vehicle accident she had at the age of 7. At that time, she received acute care in a local hospital followed by inpatient rehabilitation. Her initial injury was classified as “T2—complete.” After undergoing emergent T1–T6 stabilization surgery, she developed scoliosis, which was followed by a revision surgery 5 years later with extension of the fusion to the pelvis (Figures 1A,B). (A,B) Anteroposterior and lateral x-rays of the thoracolumbar spine demonstrating the extensive instrumentation utilized to stabilize the patient's spine. (C,D) Sagittal and axial CT images showing the significant bony fusion mass and the small area of pseudoarthrosis at the L5–S1 level. The blue line indicated the planned trajectory used for the placement of the Touhy needle into the intrathecal space. More recently, she started having worsened spasms in the last year, concomitant with a change in bowel function. She also complained of neck and right shoulder pain. She had significant clonus, despite 80 mg of oral baclofen daily and scheduled 500 mg methocarbamol TID without resolution. She also had bladder [genitourinary (GU)] spasms and received botulinum toxin injections into her bladder from urology. On exam, she presented intact strength and sensation to bilateral upper limbs, a sensory level at T2 with no movements below the level of injury. She had bilateral hip abductor tone Ashworth 1/4, left knee flexor 1/4, right knee flexor 1/4, left knee extensor 1/4, right knee extensor 1/4, left plantar flexor ¼, and right plantar flexor 1/4 with immediate bilateral lower lim (BLL) spasms with any range of motion (ROM) that involved her back muscles. She was not able to tolerate further increase in her oral baclofen dosing, and methocarbamol dosing was not increased as it was ineffective. After having a discussion about intrathecal baclofen pump placement and its potential effects on her dystonia, she was referred to the interventional pain team for an intrathecal baclofen trial. Review of thoracic and lumbar magnetic resonance imaging revealed no significant stenosis that would preclude the advancement of an intrathecal catheter; however, the lumbar magnetic resonance images were largely noninterpretable because of the artifacts from instrumentation at the L1–L4 region. Spine CT demonstrated the presence of a large fusion mass going all the way down to L5. There was a pseudoarthrosis at L5–S1 with a small gap in the posterior fusion mass thought to be used as a potential access to the intrathecal space at L5–S1. However, the intrathecal space could not able to be accessed under fluoroscopy guidance to complete the trial. Although the trial was not successful, a decision was made to proceed with the pump and catheter implantation by using a three-dimensional (3D) image guidance system, the Stealth Image Guidance System (Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA), in combination with the O-arm (Medtronic). The O-arm is a cone beam computed tomography (cbCT) device that allows for the acquisition of an intraoperative cbCT scan, which automatically registers to the image-guided system. Using infrared technology, the image-guided system can track instruments to navigate the spine from the intraoperative cbCT scan. With an image-guided probe placed on the skin, the bony fusion mass at the L5–S1 level was visualized. This region was optimal for access because of a gap in the fusion mass identified on the prior CT (Figures 1C,D). After performing a small linear skin incision, the intraoperative navigation system was used to guide a 15 G Touhy needle into the fusion gap and into the intrathecal space at L5–S1. Cerebrospinal fluid was obtained on the first pass. Next, a 2.2-mm-diameter intrathecal catheter was advanced cephalad in the intrathecal space through the Tuohy needle. Fluoroscopy confirmed the position of the catheter at T9–T10 interspace. The catheter was secured with an anchor and silk sutures at the fascial level. The rest of the procedure for tunneling the catheter and placement of the pump in the abdominal pocket proceeded in a standard manner. The pump reservoir had been filled with 20 ml of baclofen 500 mcg per ml and was programmed to deliver 25 mcg over 24 h. The patient was discharged from the hospital the following day and was followed up in the clinic 10 days later. At the first visit, a decision was made to start decreasing the oral baclofen to 20 mg TID while increasing the daily dose of intrathecal baclofen to 50.04 mcg/24 h. In the follow-up appointment 1 week later, her oral baclofen was further decreased to 20 mg BID, and the intrathecal baclofen increased to 74.98 mcg/day. In the following week, she was weaned completely off the oral baclofen, and by 2 months later, the baclofen concentration was changed to 2,000 mcg/ml, and the pump had been reprogrammed to deliver 125.32 mcg/day by that time. At her last follow-up 22 months after the pump placement, she continues to benefit from the intrathecal baclofen and remains off the oral baclofen and the methocarbamol. Her current daily dose of baclofen remains stable at 125.32 mcg/day, with Ashworth 0 scores in the lower limbs. She is able to work sitting in her chair for up to 12 h per day without spasms affecting her working ability.