The patient, a 48-year-old female, was admitted due to “low back pain and restricted movement for 9 days following a fall.” Physical examination revealed slight muscle tension in the thoracolumbar region, tenderness at the T12 spinous process, and percussive pain in the paraspinal muscles. Bilateral lower extremity muscle strength and tone were normal, and superficial sensation in the trunk and lower limbs was intact. Pathological reflexes, including Babinski sign, Oppenheim sign, Gordon sign, Hoffmann sign, Chaddock sign, and patellar clonus, were all negative bilaterally. A 3D CT scan indicated a wedge-shaped T12 vertebral body with multiple fracture lines, and an intact spinal canal without any abnormal density shadows ( Figure 1 ). Enhanced MRI revealed wedge-shaped deformation of the T12 vertebral body, with patchy areas of long T1, long T2, and T2 STIR hyperintense signals, causing mild compression of the corresponding dural sac. A round soft tissue signal shadow, measuring approximately 11 mm × 9 mm with clear boundaries, was observed in the left L1/L2 nerve root path. The lesion exhibited ring-shaped enhancement on contrast imaging, compressing the left nerve root ( Figure 2 ). Initial diagnoses were: (1) T12 vertebral compression fracture (AO: A3);(2) Suspected intradural spinal tumor. After ruling out distant metastasis, the patient underwent reduction of the T12 vertebral fracture, pedicle screw fixation, and resection of the intradural mass. Intraoperatively, a mass lesion measuring approximately 1.5 cm × 1.0 cm was identified at the left lower margin of the L1 vertebral body, located extradural, with significant local dural compression. The lesion was solid, without a capsule, well demarcated from surrounding tissues, and of moderate consistency. No obvious tumor tissue was observed intradural. The lesion was completely resected under a microscope and sent for pathological examination. Histopathology revealed atypical myxoid cartilage tissue with focal necrosis, consistent with a diagnosis of well-differentiated chondrosarcoma ( Figure 3 ). The patient did not undergo any form of adjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy postoperatively. During regular follow-up over the subsequent five years, spinal MRI and CT scans consistently showed no abnormal signal indicative of recurrent lesions in the spinal canal ( Figure 4 ). Three-dimensional CT revealed a wedge-shaped deformity of the T12 vertebral body, with no bone fragments within the spinal canal. The L1 vertebral body and its appendages were intact, with no evidence of bone destruction. Unenhanced MRI revealed a wedge-shaped deformity of the T12 vertebral body, with patchy areas of long T1, long T2, and T2-weighted high signal intensity, causing mild compression of the corresponding dural sac segment. Contrast-enhanced MRI show. Microscopic examination revealed that hematoxylin-eosin staining showed malignant tumor cells composed of cartilaginous elements, interspersed with round and spindle-shaped cells. The 5-year postoperative follow-up CT and MRI showed good healing of the T12 vertebral body fracture, with no evidence of bone destruction in the remaining vertebral bodies or their appendages. Additionally, no signs of recurrent soft tissue ma.