A 33-year-old woman with a 5-year history of progressively worsening low back pain without myelopathy/radiculopathy. On examination, her vital signs were stable. A neurological examination revealed normal muscle reflexes and negative lasegue's test. A renal computed tomographic (CT) scan incidentally identified a hyperdense lesion in the lumbosacral canal. Lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a large intradural mass (1.5 × 0.9 × 10.6 cm3) at L2-S1. The lesion exhibited hypointensity on T1-weighted images, mixed signal intensity on T2-weighted images and no contrast enhancement (Fig.1). We obtained consent from the patient, and then surgical resection was performed via a posterior midline approach. After partial removal of L2-S1 lamina using high-speed burr without foraminotomy and facetectomy, a stonelike mass was found in the interlayer between the connective tissue membrane and the dura while being noted to be firmly adherent to the dura mater and roots, encased in a layer of connective tissue membrane resembling the dura mater in appearance. The lesion was meticulously dissected and completely resected for pathological examination. Subsequently, a watertight dural closure was obtained using a combination of sutures and fibrin sealant, with laminoplasty using titanium miniplates alone. Pathological examination showed amorphous calcifying masses with osseous metaplasia in a fibrovascular stroma. Immunohistochemistry revealed focal EMA positivity in spindle-formed stromal cells, suggesting arachnoid/choroidal plexus fibroblastic origin. Postoperatively, the patient's pain resolved completely with no recurrence at 3-year follow-up MRI.Fig. 1(A) Pre-operative sagittal T1-weighted images demonstrating a hypointense intradural mass at the L2-S1 levels.(B) Sagittal T2-weighted images revealing a mixed-signal lesion. (C) Post-contrast sequences showing the mass within the right lateral aspect of the spinal canal. (D) Post-operative sagittal T1-weighted images showing the extradural mass was completely removed.(E) Axial T2-weighted images confirming the remaining cavity in the surgery area. (F) Post-contrast sequences illustrating no enhancement after surgery. (G) Intraoperative images demonstrating the lesion being completely resected along with its external capsule for pathological examination. (H)Tumor specimen showing prominent calcification and firm consistency, which complicated resection. (I) Immunohistochemical EMA showing positive expression of some spindle-shaped stromal cells, suggesting that the tumor may originate from fibroblasts in the arachnoid or choroidal plexus stroma.Fig. 1 (A) Pre-operative sagittal T1-weighted images demonstrating a hypointense intradural mass at the L2-S1 levels.(B) Sagittal T2-weighted images revealing a mixed-signal lesion. (C) Post-contrast sequences showing the mass within the right lateral aspect of the spinal canal. (D) Post-operative sagittal T1-weighted images showing the extradural mass was completely removed.(E) Axial T2-weighted images confirming the remaining cavity in the surgery area. (F) Post-contrast sequences illustrating no enhancement after surgery. (G) Intraoperative images demonstrating the lesion being completely resected along with its external capsule for pathological examination. (H)Tumor specimen showing prominent calcification and firm consistency, which complicated resection. (I) Immunohistochemical EMA showing positive expression of some spindle-shaped stromal cells, suggesting that the tumor may originate from fibroblasts in the arachnoid or choroidal plexus stroma. A 64-year-old woman presented with a two-month history of bilateral lower limb numbness and unsteady gait. Vital signs (BP, HR, RR, Spo2) were all within normal limits. Bilateral leg were elevated over 70° without pain. Symmetric reflexes were graded 2+. Lumbar MRI demonstrated a T1 hypointense, T2 heterogeneously intense intradural mass (1.1 × 0.3 × 1.6cm3) at L3, without contrast enhancement. Under general anesthesia, the patient was placed in the prone position. After partial removal of L3 lamina without foraminotomy and facetectomy, gross total resection was achieved through microscopic manipulation. The hypovascular mass was noted intraoperatively to be hard, greyish-white, and non-adherent to the dura or roots. Finally, we reattached the lamina using titanium miniplates and performed intradermic suture. Tumor specimen showed well-demarcated calcification alongside ossification, featuring palisading spindle-to-epithelioid cells, fibrous stroma, and multinucleated giant cells. Immunostaining revealed epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) positivity in spindle cells and CD68 (KP1) positivity in interstitial histiocytes (Fig.2). Postoperatively, pain resolved completely, with no recurrence during 1 year follow-up.Fig. 2(A) Pre-operative sagittal T1-weighted images revealing a hypointense intradural mass at the L3 level. (B) Axial T2-weighted images showing the mass within the left posterolateral aspect of the spinal canal. (C) Post-contrast sequences demonstrating peripheral enhancement. (D) Post-operative sagittal T1-weighted images confirming the extradural mass was completely removed. (E) Axial T2-weighted images showing no remaining mass. (F) Post-contrast sequences revealing no postoperative enhancement. (G) Intraoperative images demonstrating resection via a posterior approach with a sharp scalpel blade through microscopic manipulation. (H) EMA immunostaining highlighting positive expression in interstitial spindle cells. (I) CD68 (KP1) immunostaining showing positivity in interstitial histiocytes.Fig. 2 (A) Pre-operative sagittal T1-weighted images revealing a hypointense intradural mass at the L3 level. (B) Axial T2-weighted images showing the mass within the left posterolateral aspect of the spinal canal. (C) Post-contrast sequences demonstrating peripheral enhancement. (D) Post-operative sagittal T1-weighted images confirming the extradural mass was completely removed. (E) Axial T2-weighted images showing no remaining mass. (F) Post-contrast sequences revealing no postoperative enhancement. (G) Intraoperative images demonstrating resection via a posterior approach with a sharp scalpel blade through microscopic manipulation. (H) EMA immunostaining highlighting positive expression in interstitial spindle cells. (I) CD68 (KP1) immunostaining showing positivity in interstitial histiocytes.