A 40-year-old woman with no significant past medical history presented initially with persistent headaches for several months. The onset of her symptoms closely followed the sudden death of her husband, after which she assumed sole caregiving responsibilities for their two children. The patient noted a marked decline in her physical stamina during this time, stating she was no longer able to walk distances she had previously managed with ease and described feeling like a fraction of her former self to the point where she didn’t feel equipped to care for her children anymore. She reported that each headache episode was preceded by an overwhelming urge to lie down in a dark environment with a blindfold on. She also experienced significant difficulty with binocular focus and rapidly progressing fatigue that would progress to debilitating head pain and extreme photosensitivity during the day. An MRI obtained at the initial onset of her symptoms was unremarkable and repeated reassurance was given to her from both her primary care provider and neurologist who attributed the headache symptoms to a stress induced migraine. The patient denied any significant visual disturbances and sought the help of an ophthalmologist to explore the benefit of a new glasses prescription in hopes of alleviating her discomfort. Upon initial evaluation, she was seated cross-legged in her chair and wearing large sunglasses. On exam, her visual acuity was 20/20 in her right eye and 20/20 in her left eye, intraocular pressure was 15 mmHg in both eyes (OU), and visual fields were within normal limits OU, though she displayed trace bilateral lateral rectus weakness. Fundus exam was unremarkable for papilledema. Further detailed history was obtained, revealing severe photosensitivity, chronic low-grade fever, and tenderness on neck flexion without any focal deficits. She also noted the cross-legged position felt more comfortable and she experienced pain when she touched her chin to her chest. Notably, the patient had traveled to Vancouver Island to participate in a soccer event several weeks prior to the onset of her symptoms, where she recalls a grove of trees being cut down nearby and several of the players on the field frequently coughing. Given this constellation of symptoms and a suspected diagnosis of meningitis, a lumbar puncture (LP) was performed. The LP unveiled a markedly high opening pressure of 57 cm, despite no evidence of papilledema. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed numerous fungal elements consistent with Cryptococcus, which were subsequently speciated as C. gattii. The patient was promptly initiated on systemic antifungal therapy with amphotericin deoxycholate and flucytosine (5FC) but was switched to liposomal amphotericin after her creatinine increased to 1.6. She was treated with 3 mg/kg of liposomal amphotericin for two weeks, which was increased to 4 mg/kg on the basis of a persistently positive CSF India ink. She continued 5FC for 5 days, but it was discontinued due to the high financial burden. There was a gradual symptomatic improvement seen over the following weeks that required daily lumbar punctures for 5 days to achieve decreased opening pressures. After 2 weeks, her headaches improved, blurry vision resolved, opening pressure was normal, and CSF fungal culture was negative. The decision was made to switch from amphotericin to oral fluconazole. Fluconazole was started at 400 mg per day and increased to 800 mg 9 days later over concern of adequate CSF levels in this patient whose cryptococcus had a high MIC toward fluconazole. The fluconazole dose was lowered to 200 mg twice a day due to severe nausea and vomiting, however she additionally started to experience worsening fatigue and blurry vision at this time. A LP with spinal fluid drainage was done after an abnormal follow up MRI that revealed an increased opening pressure at 31. Although this temporarily relieved her symptoms, she began to experience significantly worsening headaches, double vision, and an unsteady gait shortly after. Given her worsening clinical decline 6 weeks into therapy from initial cryptococcal meningitis diagnosis after discontinuing amphotericin, she was readmitted for reinitiation of daily liposomal amphotericin B 3 mg/kg IV and 5FC 1600 mg every 6 h after confirmed recurrence of fungal meningitis. Physical exam also revealed a partial right 6th nerve palsy and a newly developed slight left 6th nerve palsy. CSF drainage was performed over several days via therapeutic lumbar punctures and she was discharged on liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine. A lumbar-peritoneal shunt was placed approximately one month later after a failed 10-day lumbar drain to prevent further neurological damage and address the recurrence of headaches and nausea she was experiencing. She was instructed to continue lifelong antifungal therapy with fluconazole 200 mg BID and has since recovered well.