A 32-year-old female presented with 3 months of bilateral dorsal paresthesias; on examination, she exhibited numbness dorsally and bilaterally in the T6 dermatome. The thoracic MR demonstrated an intradural extramedullary (IDEM) dorsal T6 cyst that compressed the cord and bilateral T6 nerve roots. She underwent a T5–T7 laminectomy with durotomy for gross total cyst resection. The histopathology confirmed an EC (World Health Organization 2021). Her postoperative recovery was uneventful, and at 12-postoperative months, she was asymptomatic without MR evidence of cyst recurrence. A 32-year-old Caucasian female presented with 3 months of mild bilateral dorsal T6 paresthesias/numbness. Her neurological deficit only included mild bilateral T6 dorsal hypoesthesias. The thoracic MRI [Figure 1] revealed an IDEM dorsal lesion at the T6 level, resulting in cord and bilateral T6 root compression. Surgery included a T5–T6 laminectomy, durotomy; gross total lesion resection was achieved. Postoperatively, she had no focal neurological deficits. The postoperative MRI confirmed total removal of the cyst [Figure 2]. The histopathological examination confirmed an EC (i.e., World Health Organization 2021 classification) [Figure 3]. The patient returned to work 1 month postoperatively. She became pregnant after 3 months, and both pregnancy and delivery proceeded without complications. One year later, the MRI showed no lesion recurrence, and she remained neurologically intact. (a) Sagittal T2-weighted image shows a well-circumscribed dorsal intradural–extramedullary mass at T6 (white arrows). (b) Axial T2-weighted image at T6 confirms a dorsal midline intradural location and preserved epidural fat (white arrows). (c, d) Gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted sagittal and axial images demonstrate no solid internal enhancement, with the lesion indicated (white arrows). Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (day 1). (a) Sagittal T2-weighted image. (b) Gadolinium enhanced sagittal T1-weighted images. (c and d) Axial T2-weighted and postcontrast T1-weighted. All imaging studies at the T6 level demonstrated the absence of residual mass (white arrows). Histopathological sections of the lesion. (a) Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E), ×40; dura mater (blue arrow), cyst wall (red arrow), keratin (green arrow). (b) H&E, ×100; higher magnification of the same structures. Findings consistent with epidermoid cyst.