A 61-year-old woman presented with a 1-year history of progressive bilateral lower-limb pain and numbness radiating from the gluteal regions along the posterior thighs, posterolateral calves, and into the soles. Exercise tolerance was limited by neurogenic claudication to approximately 100 m. Neurological examination revealed no overt motor weakness, and pathological reflexes were absent. She was previously healthy and denied any history of chronic illnesses such as hypertension or diabetes mellitus. Her past medical history included a thyroidectomy in 2016 for which she was taking levothyroxine. No additional surgical procedures had been performed, and the patient was not receiving any other medications. In November 2022, she underwent posterior lumbar decompression and fusion surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis which was diagnosed based on imaging findings, along with symptoms of low back pain and bilateral lower-extremity discomfort. Bilateral pedicle screws were inserted at the responsible vertebral levels. The spinous processes, laminae, and portions of the facet joints were resected to achieve thorough spinal canal decompression. After discectomy, titanium rods were used to rigidly connect the screws, and an interbody cage packed with morselized autograft was placed into the disc space (Fig. 1A). The wound was closed in anatomical layers. Her symptoms resolved postoperatively. At the 3- (Fig. 1B) and 6- (Fig. 1C) month postoperative follow-up visits, the patient reported no appreciable discomfort. Sagittal CT imaging after surgery: (A) shows no evidence of ossification within the spinal canal on postoperative day 2. (B) shows no signs of ossification within the spinal canal on postoperative month 3. (C) continues to demonstrate no ossification within the spinal canal postoperative on month 6. CT = computed tomography. In September 2023, the patient developed numbness in her right foot without any apparent precipitating factors. Lumbar computed tomography (CT) revealed a small amount of reticular high-density material within the spinal canal (Fig. 2A). She was treated with topical nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and acupuncture. At the 14-month postoperative follow-up, the patient remained asymptomatic; however, CT revealed progression of the ossified lesion compared with prior imaging (Fig. 2B). Sagittal CT images of ossification progression: (A) identifies the presence of a small amount of filamentous ossification within the spinal canal on postoperative month 10. (B) reveals an increase in filamentous ossification compared to previous scans, forming a reticular pattern on postoperative month 14. (C) shows progressive ossification, with a denser and more extensive reticular pattern on postoperative month 25. CT = computed tomography. By December 2024, her symptoms worsened, with pain and numbness progressing in both lower extremities. Follow-up lumbar CT demonstrated a significant increase in reticular ossification compared to the prior imaging. The patient sought further evaluation and treatment at our institution. On admission, the patient reported persistent bilateral lower-extremity pain and numbness that initially involved the feet and was accompanied by mild ambulatory limitation. Sensory function was normal in both lower extremities and the saddle area, and muscle tone showed normal in both lower extremities. Reduction in muscle strength of the bilateral lower limbs. No pathological reflexes were elicited. Normal bilateral dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial artery pulses. Visual analog scale: 5; Japanese Orthopaedic Association Score: 13. Laboratory findings demonstrated a subnormal serum thyroid-stimulating hormone level of 0.408 μIU/mL; all remaining parameters were within their respective reference ranges. Imaging Findings: A honeycomb-like hyperintense lesion is noted within the spinal canal on imaging (Figs. 2C and 3A). Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging reveals structural disarray in the soft tissues posterior to the vertebral bodies and within the spinal canal, showing patchy areas of hyperintensity on fat-suppressed sequences (Fig. 3B). The patient was diagnosed with AO. After discussing the condition and evaluating surgical options, a conservative treatment regimen was implemented, including NSAIDs (Parecoxib Sodium Injection, 40mg/d) for analgesia and anti-inflammatory effects, methylcobalamin (Mecobalamin Injection, 1mg/d) for neurotrophic support, mannitol(Mannitol injection, 125ml/d) combined with corticosteroids(Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate Injection, 5mg/d) to reduce neuroinflammatory edema, and adjunctive acupuncture therapy. Twelve days of conservative therapy alleviated bilateral pain and numbness (residual right-foot discomfort only), improved strength, lowered visual analog scale to 2, and raised Japanese Orthopaedic Association to 20; discharge followed. The symptoms did not recur during the 2-month follow-up after discharge and without any adverse or unanticipated events. Axial CT imaging and Axial T2-weighted MRI of the ossification outcome: (A) demonstrates the CT of a characteristic honeycomb appearance of ossified areas, with calcified deposits penetrating the dural sac on postoperative month 25. (B) shows the MRI of low-signal intensity thickening in the dural sac and intradural regions, consistent with calcification and ossification on postoperative month 25. CT = computed tomography, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging.