A 67-year-old woman presented to a doctor for acute lower back pain and right leg pain and muscle weakness. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large low-intensity mass on T2-weighted imaging in the spinal canal at the L1/2 level (Fig. 1a-b); subsequently, she was referred to our hospital for surgery 14 days after the onset of symptoms. Physical examination revealed muscle weakness in the right iliopsoas and further distal muscles, causing walking difficulty. Bowel and bladder functions were preserved. She was initially diagnosed with lumbar disc herniation and underwent surgery 17 days after onset. Spinous process-splitting partial laminectomy and herniotomy were performed; however, herniated disc fragments were not found in the epidural space, and ILDH was suspected. Dorsal durotomy revealed that several larger disc fragments and more than a dozen smaller disc fragments firmly adhered to each swollen cauda equina. They were resected as much as possible without damaging the cauda equina. The ventral dura, which corresponds to the hernia gate, was not sutured because of its severe adhesion and excessive bleeding due to neovascular disruption during attempted resection, and the dorsal dura was closed and sealed with fibrin glue. Postoperatively, right leg muscle weakness and pain improved without complications, such as CSF leakage, and the patient could walk independently. Three months after surgery, severe muscle weakness in both legs and urinary retention progressed gradually. T2-weighted MRI showed a high-intensity lesion from the conus to the epiconus, which was not present on the preoperative images, and she was diagnosed with syringomyelia with adhesive arachnoiditis (Fig. 1c-d). On CT myelography, the central canal and syrinx of the conus and epiconus and the subarachnoid space were delineated immediately after the administration of nonionic contrast agents (Fig. 2a-d). Thus, the communication between the central canal and the subarachnoid space could be confirmed (Fig. 2d). Additional laminectomy, dissection of the arachnoid adhesion, syringo-subarachnoid shunt, and duroplasty were performed (Fig. 3). Due to the intense adhesions, the subarachnoid space was exposed by dissection from the intact area. Intraoperative ultrasound confirmed that it was definitely the syrinx and myelotomy was performed. A shunt tube 1.4 mm in diameter and 40 mm long was placed in the syrinx on one side and in the caudal ventral subarachnoid space on the other side. In addition, a drainage tube was placed to connect the cephalocaudal side of the intact subarachnoid space across the adhesion site, and duroplasty with an artificial dura mater was performed (Fig. 3). Postoperatively, her lower limb muscle weakness, and urinary retention also gradually improved. Two years after the last surgery, her muscle weakness and urinary retention completely resolved, but the MRI showed partial residual syrinx (Fig. 4a-c). Preoperative and 3 months postoperative T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. (a) Sagittal and (b) axial images before surgery. (c) Sagittal and (d) axial images 3 months after surgery. A white arrow indicates syringomyelia. A white arrowhead indicates the enlargement of the central canal. CT myelogram 3 months postoperatively. (a) Sagittal and (b-c) axial images. A white arrow indicates syringomyelia. A white arrowhead indicates the enlargement of the central canal. (d) Reconstructed CT image focused on the central canal. A white arrowhead indicates the enlargement of the central canal. A white arrow indicates the communication between the central canal and the subarachnoid space. Intraoperative photograph. The shorter green tube implanted into the syrinx is syringo-subarachnoid shunt tube, and the longer one is the drainage tube connecting the intact subarachnoid space. The 18-month postoperative T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. (a) Sagittal and (b-c) axial images. A white arrow indicates the residual syrinx.