The patient was a 76-year-old Japanese man. He had a history of type Ⅱ diabetes mellitus, hypertension, myocardial infarction, and atrial fibrillation. Twenty years prior, he had undergone surgery for bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, followed by surgery for right cubital tunnel syndrome 15 years ago and lumbar spinal canal stenosis 10 years ago. Since the age of 66, he has occasionally exhibited repetitive speech and questioning behaviors. His recent memory impairment progressed very slowly, and at the age of 70, he visited a psychiatrist and was diagnosed with AD. At the age of 76, he was referred to our hospital for treatment with the newly approved anti-Aβ antibody lecanemab. Cognitive impairment was characterized mainly by recent memory impairment, with a Mini-Mental State Examination score of 23 and a Clinical Dementia Rating of 1.0. 18F-flutemetamol amyloid PET imaging showed significant accumulation in the bilateral frontal, parietal, basal ganglia, and posterior cingulate gyrus-precuneus areas (Figure 1A), indicating the presence of AD pathology. Additionally, a brain MRI revealed mild hippocampal atrophy, supporting the diagnosis of AD. Clinically silent multiple lacunar infarcts were identified in the basal ganglia region, but there were no significant microbleeds on susceptibility-weighted imaging. Treatment with lecanemab was initiated. (A) 18F-flutemetamol amyloid PET imaging demonstrates significant amyloid accumulation in the brain. Technetium-99m pyrophosphate (PYP) scintigraphy shows myocardial uptake in (B) planar and (C) SPECT imaging. Congo red staining and immunohistochemistry of biopsied specimens: (D–F) myocardium; (G–I) duodenum; (D, G) Congo red staining observed under bright field; (E, H) Congo red staining observed under polarized light; (F, I) transthyretin immunohistochemistry. Scale bars = 200 μm. In this case, coexisting ATTRwt amyloidosis was suspected due to the history of recurrent tendon and ligament disorders such as bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, atrial fibrillation, and NYHA (New York Heart Association) grade II heart failure symptoms. In ATTRwt amyloidosis, amyloid deposition in tendon and ligament tissue causes entrapment neuropathy, and subsequent amyloid deposition in myocardial tissue causes restrictive cardiomyopathy and arrhythmias. Echocardiography revealed no significant wall thickening, but a septal E/e' was suggestive of diastolic dysfunction. Chest X-ray revealed cardiac enlargement. N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels and high-sensitivity troponin T (hs-TnT) levels, which correlate with the severity and prognosis of ATTRwt amyloidosis, were elevated (Table 1). No M-protein was detected, and free light chains were not elevated. The genotype of apolipoprotein E was ε4/ε4. Technetium-99m pyrophosphate (PYP) myocardial scintigraphy revealed grade 2 abnormal uptake (Figures 1B, 1C), consistent with ATTRwt amyloidosis. Genetic testing for the TTR gene showed no variants. Histopathological examination using Congo red staining and immunohistochemistry revealed TTR amyloid deposits both in myocardial and gastrointestinal biopsy specimens, demonstrating systemic amyloidosis (Figures 1D-I). A diagnosis of ATTRwt amyloidosis was confirmed, and treatment with a TTR tetramer stabilizer, tafamidis, was initiated. Regular follow-up over six months showed no significant progression of cardiac amyloidosis. AST: Aspartate aminotransferase, ALT: Alanine aminotransferase, CPK: Creatine phosphokinase, Cr: Creatinine, BUN: Blood urea nitrogen, HbA1c: Hemoglobin A1c, CRP: C-reactive protein, BNP: B-type natriuretic peptide, NT-pro BNP: N-terminal pro-B-type Natriuretic Peptide, hs-TnT: high-sensitivity Troponin T.