A 46-year-old man without any previous medical history presented to our hospital with lumbosacral pain for 4 months. Physical examination showed that the patient suffered from pain in the waist, and there were no positive signs in the rest of the body. The patient’s hemogram and tumor marker values were all within the normal reference range. Lumbar and sacral CT showed that the patient’s fifth lumbar vertebrae to the second sacral vertebrae and its appendages had low-density bone destruction, accompanied by a paravertebral soft tissue mass (6.7 cm × 5.3 cm × 8.2 cm), and partial protrusion into the vertebral and sacral canals; CT angiography showed that the mass was supplied by the left internal iliac artery (as shown in Figure 1). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows that the aforementioned lesion presents as an isointense signal on T1-weighted imaging (T1WI) and slightly hyperintense signal on T2-weighted imaging (T2WI) and shows significant enhancement on contrast-enhanced T1WI. Subsequently, PET/CT was performed to evaluate the tumor’s nature and staging. The results demonstrated markedly increased 18F-FDG uptake in the lesion spanning the fifth lumbar vertebra to the second sacral vertebra, with a maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax) of 33.6 (Figure 2). Based on the patient’s abovementioned imaging findings, it is highly likely that the patient has a malignant spinal tumor. The patient underwent CT-guided biopsy. Hematoxylin–eosin staining showed that spindle cells and osteoclast-like giant cells were mixed in the mass, which was a typical manifestation of GCTB. Moreover, there is a small amount of high-grade sarcomatous elements, with localized tumor invasion of skeletal muscle at the margin (as shown in Figure 3). Immunohistochemical findings showed positive expression of vimentin, H3.3G34, SATB2, osteoclast-like giant cell CD68, SMA, skeletal muscle desmin, and Ki-67, with a positivity rate of approximately 10%. In contrast, a negative expression was observed for CD1a, S100, ALK, CD163, CK, and P63. Based on these pathological and immunohistochemical findings, the patient was diagnosed with PMGCTB from the fifth lumbar vertebrae to the second sacral vertebrae. After the diagnosis was confirmed, the patient received three courses of denosumab treatment but showed a poor response. Two months later, we were informed that the patient had passed away, and we have not had more information about the treatment and outcome. Axial CT bone window of the lumbosacral region shows a low-density bone destruction area in the left part of the sacrum and in the left appendage area (A, arrow). The sagittal view shows a bone sclerosis rim (B, arrow) in the destroyed bone. CT soft tissue window shows a soft tissue mass formation in the bone destruction area (C, arrow). (D) CT angiography revealed that the mass was supplied by the branches of the left internal iliac artery (arrow). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows that the abovementioned lesion presents as an isointense signal on T1-weighted imaging (T1WI, E) and a slightly hyperintense signal on T2-weighted imaging (T2WI, F) and shows significant enhancement on contrast-enhanced T1WI (G). Fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT imaging of the patient. The maximum intensity projection (MIP, A) showed an obviously increased 18F-FDG uptake in the central region of the pelvis (arrow). Axial CT (B) reveals the lesion localized in the left aspect of the sacrum and left appendicular region (arrow). The corresponding lesion had obviously increased 18F-FDG uptake on axial PET (C) and PET/CT fusion (D), with a maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of 33.6. Hematoxylin–eosin staining showed that spindle cells and osteoclast-like giant cells were mixed in the mass (A), accompanied by high-grade sarcoma components (B, arrows). Immunohistochemical analysis showed that the tumor cells positively expressed vimentin (C), H3.3G34 (D), SATB2 (E), and osteoclast-like giant cell CD68 (F).