A 31-year-old male patient was admitted to our hospital for continuous life support and the treatment of lumbar and cauda equina injuries after undergoing emergency laparotomy for a colon fistula and lumbar debridement and suturing in a local hospital. The main diagnoses were as follows: (i) an open fracture of L3 vertebra and degree IV posterior dislocation; (ii) spinal cord injury; (iii) caudal nerve transection injury; (iv) left ureteral rupture and urinary extravasation; (v) intestinal rupture and fistula; and (vi) low back wound infection. Physical examination revealed Grade 0 lower limb muscle strength, absence of sensation in the lower half of the thighs and no physiological or pathological reflexes in either lower limb. Computed tomography (CT) findings revealed (i) transverse fracture of L3 vertebral body below the pedicle; (ii) degree IV posterior dislocation in the same vertebra; (iii) fractures bilaterally in the transverse processes of L1-5 vertebral bodies; (iv) spinous process fractures in L2-5 vertebrae, the psoas major muscle and vertical lumbar muscles; and (v) bilaterally and retroperitoneal multiple encapsulated effusion and hematoma (Figure 1a, b). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings were as follows: (i) abnormal spinal canal structure in L3-4 vertebrae; (ii) spinal cord conus contusion; and (iii) a completely broken cauda equina (Figure 1c). Following treatment in the department of critical care medicine, the vital signs of the patient were stable. Figure 1Preoperative CT and MRI scans. (a, b) Three-dimensional reconstruction and sagittal reconstruction of lumbar CT images. The continuity and integrity of the L3 vertebrae can be seen to be disrupted, with significant displacement between the vertebrae. (c) Lumbar MRI scan. Fractures and dislocations of the L3 vertebrae with disruption of the spinal canal and cauda equina continuity are seen. CT: Computed tomography; MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging. Two months after the injury, left renal puncture of the fistula, reduction of the fracture and dislocation of L3 vertebral body, internal fixation of L2-5 vertebrae with a vertebral pedicle screw rod system, bilateral sural nerve transplantation and cauda equina nerve anastomosis were performed. General anesthesia was induced by intubation. Once the anesthesia effect was confirmed, the patient was placed in the prone position. First, left percutaneous nephrostomy of the left kidney was performed under the guidance of color Doppler ultrasound by a urologist. Then, the spine surgeon used the posterior median approach to expose the spinous process, lamina and articular process of L2-5 vertebrae. Eight pedicle long tail screws were placed on both sides of L2-5 vertebrae. Due to dislocation, the tail of the pedicle screw of L3-4 vertebrae formed obvious steps, and it was difficult to install connection rods. On prying in the intervertebral space between L3-4 vertebrae, vertebral dislocation could not be reduced. In the first step, the left side of the pedicle screw was used to install the pre-bending connecting rod (S-shaped, arc height: less than the L3-4 vertebrae, vertebral screw step heights: approximately one screw cap length) (Figure 2a). The screw caps of L2-3 vertebrae were tightened first and the screw caps of L4-5 vertebrae were pressed and tightened, when the spreader was used to open the tail of the pedicle screws of L3-4 vertebrae (open intervertebral space for reduction) (Figure 2b). The case of dislocation was preliminarily reset (Figure 2c). Following this, the pre-bending connecting rod (S-shaped, height difference: IDEM) was installed on the right side. The anterior steps on the right side were repeated while slowly loosening the left screw before the case of dislocation was significantly reduced. Subsequently, the S-rod of the left side was removed and a straight rod was installed. Finally, the right S-rod was loosened and replaced with a straight rod, and the dislocation was completely reset. A C-arm fluoroscopy examination showed complete reduction of the dislocation and a normal lumbar sequence. Figure 2Fracture dislocation reduction schematic. (a) The arc height was less than the lumbar 3,4 vertebral screw steps heights, which were about one screw cap length, and the screw caps of the L2-3 vertebrae were tightened. (b) The screw caps of L4-5 vertebrae were pressed and tightened when the spreader was used to open the tail of the L3-4 pedicle screws. (c) Initial reduction of fracture dislocation. After three months of bed confinement, the patient began to sit up with the help of the attendees. High-density calcification at the cauda equina nerve reconstruction area was seen on the CT scan taken at three months after the operation. Four months after the operation, the patient could move independently in a wheelchair during rehabilitation training. The patient developed severe pain in both lower limbs with an anal bulge at five months after the operation and also gradually developed pain in the lower abdomen and external urethral orifice. The Visual Analog Scale (VAS)-pain score was 8. Following a multidisciplinary consultation, the pathological pain was considered to be caused by arachnoiditis ossificans of the cauda equina and spinal cord conus injury, which were non-responsive to intrathecal morphine injection and oral medication. The VAS score decreased to 2 points following spinal cord posterior rhizotomy from thoracic vertebra 12 to L2 vertebra, as performed by the neurosurgeon. After six months, the patient could urinate independently after the catheter was removed and partial systolic function of the anal sphincter was regained. During the one-year follow-up after the operation, X-ray and CT scans showed that the spine maintained a normal sequence, and the internal fixation device was stable without loosening (Figure 3). On the MRI scan, complete spinal canal decompression was observed (Figure 3). Considering cauda equina ossification arachnoiditis, the degree of ossification of the patient had gradually increased in the final follow-up CT scan (Figure 3e–h). A written informed consent was obtained from the patient. Figure 3Postoperative follow-up images. (a) In the postoperative one-week lumbar X lateral radiograph, the fracture dislocation had been completely reset. (b, c) Sagittal reconstruction, spinal sequence stability, and reliable internal fixation were observed at five months and one year after the operation. (d) In the lumbar MRI scan at one year after the operation, spinal canal reconstruction was observed. (e-h) The CT scans in the transverse position of L3 vertebra were taken at three, five, and seven months and one year after the operation. The degree of ossification of cauda equina have gradually increased in the follow-up CT scan. CT: Computed tomography.