A 62-year-old male with known hypertension and CLL presented with severe low back pain and left anterior thigh radiation, who underwent uneventful microscopic discectomy for L2–L3 disc sequestration. On post-operative day 4, the patient developed cauda equina syndrome with concurrent dengue and chikungunya infections, and magnetic resonance imaging revealed an extradural hematoma at L3–L5 level. After medical optimization with platelet transfusions and steroids, the patient underwent emergency surgical evacuation of the hematoma. A 62-year-old male presented to the outpatient department with low back pain (visual analog score [VAS] 6/10) with left anterior thigh radiation (VAS 8/10) associated with tingling in a known case of hypertension and chronic lymphoid leukemia (CLL). On neurologic examination, gait was antalgic while the femoral nerve stretch test was positive and straight leg raising test was negative. There was no lower limb power weakness while sensations and deep tendon reflexes were intact. There was no recent history of fever, bleeding diathesis, or anti-coagulant intake. Provisional diagnosis of lumbar radiculopathy was considered. Blood investigations revealed normal platelets (133000) with raised total leukocyte count (TLC) (188810). Lumbar spine anteroposterior and lateral dynamic views had no radiological instability (Fig. 1). while magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed L2–L3 inferior disc sequestration with disc desiccation compressing the exiting L3 nerve root (Fig. 2). The patient was posted for microscopic discectomy and procedure was uneventful and sequestered disc fragments were retrieved with complete decompression of the nerve root. The patient had significant improvement in radiculopathy in post-operative (VAS 1/10) and was comfortably walking the next day. Routine hemogram on post-operative day (POD) 1 showed TLC 133760 while platelets were 94000. On POD 3, the patient had two episodes of fever spikes with body temperature >100 F. On POD 4, the patient had sudden complaints of perineal numbness with bowel and bladder incontinence with right posterior thigh radiation while neurology weakness of right ankle dorsiflexion and extensor halluces longus (EHL) grade 1/5 with hypoesthesia over right L5 dermatome was noted. Blood counts showed thrombocytopenia (89000) with raised TLC (127630). On tropical fever panel test by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method, the patient tested positive for dengue and chikungunya, while he was negative for plasmodium, rickets, and Salmonella. The patient tested negative for dengue immunoglobulin (Ig)G and IgM antibodies. Blood sugar, serum creatinine, serum electrolytes, serum bilirubin, and aminotransferases were normal while total proteins slightly reduced. Bleeding time, clotting time, and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) were raised. Ultrasonographic examination of the abdomen revealed mild hepatosplenomegaly. MRI of the lumbar spine was suggestive of extradural hematoma at L3–L4, L4–L5 vertebral level causing cord compression (Fig. 3). Diagnosis was revised as post-microdiscectomy spontaneous delayed hematoma (>72 h) with cauda equina syndrome and the patient was treated symptomatically for dengue fever. Intravenous methylprednisolone 500 mg was given. Multiple transfusions of single donor platelet are given to raise the platelets above the critical level of 50,000/cu mm and fresh frozen plasma with partial thromboplastin time with kaolin (PTTK)/APTT mixing studies returning near to normal values. For leukemia, the patient was posted after oncologist clearance. The patient was posted on POD 4 for emergency evacuation. Radiograph: Anteroposterior and lateral flexion extension view showing no instability. Magnetic resonance imaging (a) T2-weighted sagittal section (b) T2-weighted axial section showing L2–L3 sequestered and inferiorly migrated disc with left foraminal stenosis. Intraoperative retrieved hematoma. Midline incision was extended and L3–L5 wide laminectomy with hematoma evacuation was done, and drain was placed in situ. The thecal sac was pulsatile. Intraoperatively drain was also kept in situ to avoid further hematoma if any. Post-operative period was uneventful with improvement in constitutional symptoms, right ankle dorsiflexion, and EHL power to grade 3/5. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis was given in form of DVT pumps until lower limb strengthening exercises were started. Post-operative radiograph confirmed wide laminectomy. (Fig. 4) Foley’s catheter was kept in situ on discharge and removed after 1 month postoperatively. The patient was discharged on day 15 in stable condition with training in limb strengthening exercises and was made to stand bedside. During 6-month follow-up period, the patient showed improvement in power of ankle dorsiflexion and EHL by 3 grade and bowel bladder symptoms improved. Following 1 year, the patient had resumed his daily activities and was walking without support. Post-operative X-ray: wide midline laminectomy.