A 54-year-old man who underwent lumbar spinal fusion surgery. Initially treated for delayed onset postsurgical spondylodiscitis, the diagnosis of rhBMP-2 induced vertebral endplate osteolysis was only established after clinical and radiological reassessment. The patient presented with non-specific lower back pain 3 months after surgery. Initial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed single-level intradiscal fluid with adjacent endplate erosions, mild disc cage subsidence, marrow edema, and a rim-enhancing fluid collection. Biochemical markers were not convincing for spondylodiscitis and blood cultures were negative. Nonetheless, he was treated empirically with oral antibiotics. The patient showed significant improvement 3 weeks after the initial diagnosis was made, with subsequent imaging findings demonstrating the development of endplate osteolysis and implant subsidence. A 54-year-old gentleman with classical presentation of neurogenic claudication underwent left L5–S1 minimally invasive (MI) transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) with off-label use of NOVOSIS® rh-BMP. The pre-operative lumbar spine radiographs revealed Meyerding grade I anterolisthesis at L4–5 level, measuring up to 10 mm (Figure 1). There was no pars defect. Lateral view of pre-operative lumbar spine radiograph showed Meyerding grade I anterolisthesis at L4–5 level, measuring up to 10 mm. There was no pars defect. Intra-operatively, E. coli-derived rhBMP-2 (NOVOSIS®) was used to promote fusion anterior to the interbody cage. Approximately 0.5 mg of rhBMP-2 at a concentration of 1 mg/mL was mixed with 1.3 cc of HA carrier for 10 minutes to allow for integration. This preparation was then mixed with autograft obtained from the inferior articular process osteotomy retrieved from approach to the disc space. This BMP-autograft composite was then packed into the anterior disc space. Following this, the bi-directional expandable cage (Flarehawk 9, Accelus) was inserted and additional autograft was packed into the cage. Posterior fixation was achieved using polyaxial pedicle screws as part of the Everest MI XT spinal system (K2M, Stryker). This grafting technique and implant configuration were selected to promote anterior column fusion while maintaining posterior stability through an MI approach. There was no immediate post-operative complication, and he was discharged the following day. Immediate post-operative X-ray showed partial reduction of anterolisthesis, from 10 to 7 mm (Figure 2). Lateral view of immediate post-operative lumbar spine radiograph showed partial reduction of anterolisthesis, from 10 to 7 mm. There was no breach of articulating endplates. Subsequently, the patient reported new-onset persistent back pain on routine 3-month follow-up. This was followed up with a lumbar X-ray suggesting possible subsidence of disc cage. The surgical wound was healing well with no discharge from the wound. No fever was reported. With a low threshold to detect early post-operative complications with high morbidity such as infection, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lumbar spine was requested. MRI showed cage subsidence with an irregular appearance of the vertebral end plates and marked marrow edema (Figure 3). The possibility of delayed-onset post-surgical spondylodiscitis was raised. Sagittal T2-weighted MRI sections of lumbar spine. These sections demonstrated (A) intradiscal fluid signal (arrow) and (B) vertebral endplate osteolysis (arrowhead) with resultant cage subsidence. Marrow and soft tissue edema are also present. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging. The patient was admitted for further evaluation. Clinical inspection showed a well-healing surgical wound with no signs of inflammation. White cell counts and procalcitonin levels were normal, though erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were elevated. Two sets of blood cultures were negative for bacterial growth. On consultation with the musculoskeletal interventional radiologist, image-guided biopsy was not performed due to technical difficulty in access, and sampling of the small target. The clinical suspicion for spondylodiscitis was low given the lack of systemic symptoms, equivocal inflammatory markers and negative blood cultures. Nonetheless, an infectious disease (ID) consultation was sought. Although a 6-week course of intravenous antibiotic therapy was recommended, the patient declined this option. As a precautionary measure, and despite the absence of strong supporting evidence, oral antibiotic therapy [co-amoxiclav 1 g twice daily (BD) + amoxicillin 500 mg BD; addition of amoxicillin 500 mg BD was to achieve therapeutic level through oral therapy] was initiated instead. The patient remained afebrile throughout the hospital admission and was discharged after three days. Follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan of the lumbar spine (Figure 4) revealed cage subsidence and moderate reduction in disc height. Angulation of the disc cage was also demonstrated on radiographs (Figure 5). The cage subsidence and angulation are unlikely to be related to failed reduction attempt as the tactile feedback during endplate preparation indicated good bone quality and the immediate post-operative radiographs did not indicate breach in the endplate (Figure 2). Serial blood tests showed normalization of ESR and CRP levels. White cell count remained normal throughout. Coronal (A) and sagittal (B) sections of lumbar spine demonstrated subsidence and angulation (arrow) of disc cage with resultant loss of disc height. No osseous integration was observed. Lateral views of the lumbar spine at (A) post-operative day 1 and (B) 7 months post-operatively. Vertebral endplate osteolysis resulted in subsidence and angulation of the disc cage (arrow). Loss of disc space can also be appreciated. The imaging findings were later attributed to rhBMP-2 induced vertebral endplate osteolysis, rather than spondylodiscitis, based on clinical progression and laboratory. Patient’s symptoms resolved 18 months post-operatively. Radiographs showed stable subsidence of disc cage and loss of height at L5–S1 (Figure 6). Frontal (A) and lateral (B) views of the lumbar spine 18 months after surgery showed stable subsidence and angulation of disc cage (arrow), as well as stable loss of L5–S1 disc space. All procedures performed in this study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and/or national research committee(s) and with the Helsinki Declaration and its subsequent amendments. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the editorial office of this journal.