An 81-year-old Caucasian female is accompanied by her daughter to the emergency department with concern of sudden-onset weakness in her legs. Her symptoms began earlier that morning without progression. Although she was able to move her limbs, her concern was that she could not bear weight on her legs. Associated with her weakness was a dull pain in the lower back, which she described as moderately severe and occasionally radiating through the right leg. Spinal flexion improved the pain, and spinal extension worsened it. She denied any trauma to the back and denied symptoms of generalized fatigue, fever, headache, lightheadedness, palpitations, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, bowel or bladder incontinence, numbness, or upper extremity weakness. In contrast, she reported improving dysuria, as approximately one week earlier, she was diagnosed with an uncomplicated cystitis. She delayed filling her prescription for nitrofurantoin and was now only on her third day of taking the medication. Further review of her past medical history revealed hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, congestive heart failure, and atrial fibrillation status-post pacemaker placement. In regard to these diagnoses, she reported adherence to her home medications. Her previous surgeries were notable for a left humeral surgical fixation four months earlier, which was complicated by cellulitis, as well as bilateral total knee arthroplasties performed years prior. She denied any alcohol, tobacco, or drug use. At home, she lived with her daughter and remained typically independent with her activities of daily living. Her bilateral lower extremity weakness and right leg pain with lumbar extension raise the concern for etiologies that limit the tolerance for foraminal space narrowing. For example, conditions such as disc herniation, spinal stenosis, and degenerative disc disease. Additionally, the sudden onset of lower extremity weakness following the initiation of a new medication raises the possibility of a nitrofurantoin-induced myopathy. Similarly, her weakness may also be secondary to failed treatment of her urinary tract infection and the progression of pyelonephritis and urosepsis. Other differential diagnoses to consider include spondylolisthesis, spinal epidural abscess, and malignancy. All of which could lead to spinal cord compression and contribute to her limb weakness. Furthermore, the bilateral nature of the weakness expands the differential to include neurological conditions such as multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, myasthenia gravis, Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, diabetic neuropathy, and subacute combined degeneration. At this stage in a patient's care, it is crucial for clinicians to avoid anchoring to an initial diagnosis. A thorough work-up is necessary to rule out a broad range of potentially life-threatening conditions that present with lower extremity weakness (Figure 1). In the emergency department, her heart rate was 89 beats/minute, blood pressure 119/71 mmHg, respiratory rate 28 breaths/minute, temperature 98.9°F, and oxygen saturation 96%. A physical exam revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light. Extraocular movements were intact. Cranial nerves were 2-12 intact, and there was no facial asymmetry. Inspection of the nasal passages revealed moist mucous membranes and a clear oropharynx without erythema or tonsillar edema. Cardiac exam revealed a regular rhythm without murmurs, rubs, or gallops to auscultation and no jugular venous distension. Lung fields were clear with vesicular breath sounds bilaterally. The abdomen was soft, nontender, and bowel sounds were normoactive. Posteriorly, no costovertebral angle tenderness. Genitourinary exam was without lesions, sores, or suprapubic tenderness. Upper extremity strength was 5/5, lower extremity strength 3/5, deep tendon reflexes +2 in all extremities, no saddle anesthesia, no Hoffmann sign, no dysdiadochokinesia, and no clonus. The straight leg raising test was positive on the right at less than 70° hip flexion. Several diagnostic tests were also performed. Notably, laboratory results demonstrated an elevated white blood cell count of 16.0 x103/µL (reference range: 4.5-11.0 x103/µL). By coordinating this finding with her tachypnea, she met the diagnostic criteria for systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). Thus, blood cultures were promptly obtained from multiple sites, and she was initiated on empiric antibiotic treatment for sepsis. Measured inflammatory markers are described in Table 1. Despite these laboratory findings, her pulmonary, abdominal, and pelvic exam, along with urinalysis and chest X-ray, did not reveal a clear source of infection. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis without contrast also revealed no acute changes. However, a CT scan of the lumbar spine without contrast did visualize degenerative disc disease, posterior disc bulge at L3-L4, foraminal stenosis, and central stenosis. WBC - white blood cell count; NEUT - neutrophil; LYMPH lymphocyte; MONO - monocyte; EOS - eosinophil; BASO - basophil; ABS NEUT - absolute neutrophil count Her elevated inflammatory markers supported the hypothesis for an ascending urinary tract infection that may have progressed into bacteremia, hence the indolent course of her infection. However, the lack of supporting evidence from her genitourinary exam findings, as well as her urine and blood cultures, raised the need to continue a broad differential diagnosis. In reconciling her neurological symptoms as a consequence of mechanical spinal cord compromise, an MRI without contrast of the lumbar spine was obtained to follow up on her CT findings (Figure 2). The imaging revealed multilevel lumbar spondylosis, degenerative disc disease, spondylolisthesis of L3-L4, ligamentum flavum hypertrophy, moderate central stenosis of L3-L5, and no distal cord compromise. Neurological exam findings: cranial nerves 2-12 intact without facial asymmetry. Upper extremity strength 5/5, lower extremity strength 3/5, deep tendon reflexes +2 in all extremities, no saddle anesthesia, no Hoffmann sign, no dysdiadochokinesia, and no clonus. Positive straight leg raising on the right. White Arrows: There is marked central stenosis with nerve root clumping, as well as marked facet and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy. L3: Demonstrates spondylosis, disc bulging, and slight anterolisthesis of L3 relative to L4. Additionally, there is moderate bilateral neural foraminal stenosis. L4: Demonstrates slight anterolisthesis of L4 relative to L5, along with disc bulging, facet and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy, and moderate central stenosis. There is also moderate bilateral neural foraminal stenosis. L5: Demonstrates minimal noncompressive disc bulging. In addition, there is mild facet and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy. There is no substantial central or neural foraminal stenosis. The distal cord and conus are normal. These findings were consistent with her posture-dependent pain, lower extremity weakness, and positive straight leg raising, suggesting a mechanical source of her symptoms superimposed on her indolent infection. However, they did not explain her sudden onset of weakness, which opposes the chronic, progressive nature of degenerative spinal changes. Conditions such as vertebral compression fractures or disc herniations are more classically associated with acute low back pain, yet the findings did not suggest such etiologies. Then, overnight, she suddenly developed a fever of 101.7°F despite ongoing intravenous antibiotic therapy. The fever resolved spontaneously within an hour, and she began to report worsening pain in her right leg. Inspection of the right leg demonstrated swelling and tenderness. Venous ultrasound of the right femoral vein revealed a non-occlusive deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and she was continued on apixaban for DVT prophylaxis. The sudden onset of fever was significant, and her differential diagnoses were reassessed with greater clarity. Her weakness did not follow an ascending, symmetrical pattern and was not associated with a history of gastrointestinal or respiratory tract infection, making Guillain-Barré syndrome unlikely. Myasthenia gravis and Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome were unlikely, as her weakness was neither progressive nor altered by continuous activity. Multiple sclerosis was unlikely as no plaques were visualized at the level of her neurological deficits, and she denied any history of weakness. Moreover, she lacked upper or lower motor neuron signs suggestive of neural tract impairment that correlates with demyelination. Subacute combined degeneration was unlikely, as she lacked upper motor neuron or dorsal column deficits and showed no hematologic dysfunction indicative of cobalamin deficiency. A cerebrovascular accident was unlikely, as her findings were non-focal and posture-dependent. Weakness secondary to pyelonephritis and urosepsis was unlikely as she did not demonstrate clinical signs of peritoneal inflammation, costovertebral angle tenderness, or suprapubic tenderness. Moreover, urine cultures and CT of the abdomen-pelvis failed to demonstrate supporting evidence of a complicated urinary tract infection or renal calculi. Finally, nitrofurantoin-induced myopathy was unlikely, as it typically presents with muscle tenderness, fasciculations, atrophy, and/or elevated serum creatinine kinase. Since she did not demonstrate these findings, the likelihood remained low. Therefore, in the context of bilateral lower extremity weakness, fever, leukocytosis, and low back pain, repeating MRI imaging of the spine for signs of a spinal epidural abscess was discussed with the patient. She agreed, given the increased suspicion for a spinal epidural abscess taking precedent over other possibilities. Her neurological exam was also reassessed, and it now demonstrated +1 patellar reflexes. Additionally, at this time, one blood culture began to grow methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA). Infectious disease was consulted, and they recommended switching ceftriaxone and vancomycin to nafcillin, obtaining a second set of blood cultures, and performing an echocardiogram. Further inflammatory markers such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) were obtained as well, supporting the need for urgent advanced imaging (Table 2). 1Reference range for adult females over the age of 50 ESR -erythrocyte sedimentation rate; CRP - C-reactive protein Her echocardiogram showed no abnormal findings; however, new findings were noted on her contrast-enhanced MRI of the lumbar spine. First, a 17.1 mm spinal epidural abscess with thickening of the dura, causing severe central stenosis, was identified (Figure 3). Second, there was enhancement of the posterior paraspinous soft tissues, musculature, and subcutaneous tissues, consistent with myositis and cellulitis (Figure 4). Key neurological exam findings: 3/5 strength and +1 patellar reflexes in bilateral lower extremities; no saddle anesthesia, Hoffmann sign, dysdiadochokinesia, or clonus. 17.1 mm: At the L3 level, there is enhancement and thickening of the dura, as well as a spinal epidural abscess measuring 17.1 mm in the cranio-caudad dimension. Dashed arrow: At the L4 level, there is a smaller fluid pocket noted within the posterior aspect of the epidural space. Solid white arrows: The enhanced dura is thickened and inflamed, causing clumping of the nerve roots and contributing to severe central stenosis. Key neurological exam findings: 3/5 strength and +1 patellar reflexes in bilateral lower extremities; no saddle anesthesia, Hoffmann sign, dysdiadochokinesia, or clonus. 14.9 mm: At the T11 level, there is enhancement of a benign vertebral hemangioma measuring 14.9 mm in the cranio-caudad dimension, which is far removed from the dural thickening. White arrows: There is enhancement of the posterior paraspinous soft tissues, musculature, and subcutaneous tissues, consistent with myositis and cellulitis. Upon confirming the diagnosis of a spinal epidural abscess, she was transferred to a tertiary care facility for neurosurgical evaluation. There, she was successfully managed with surgical debridement of the abscess in conjunction with antibiotic therapy. She responded well to the procedure and was discharged to a rehabilitation center, where she made a full recovery of motor function within two weeks. Concurrently, she also began a coordinated regimen of intravenous oxacillin for six weeks, which she received at the facility and later in an outpatient setting. Pathology results of her resected tissues later confirmed the methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus infection. Her only complication occurred after five weeks, when she was readmitted to the hospital due to generalized weakness and a urinary tract infection. After increasing systemic antibiotic coverage, these symptoms resolved, and she returned home. A timeline summarizing these events can be found in Figure 5. UTI - urinary tract infection; DDD - degenerative disc disease; CN - cranial nerves; UE - upper extremity; LE - lower extremity; W/O - without; WBC - white blood cell count; NEUT - neutrophil; RR - respiratory rate; SIRS - systemic inflammatory response syndrome; Cx - culture; DVT - deep vein thrombosis; MSSA - methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus; IV - intravenous