A 49-year-old woman presented to the outpatient department (OPD) at the Punjab Institute of Neurosciences in June 2024 with complaints of bilateral lower limb weakness for the past 15 days, lower back pain for the past two months, and swelling in the left paraspinal region for the past two months. The onset of symptoms was slow and progressive in nature, associated with nausea and weight loss. On clinical examination, the patient had a swelling in the left lumbar paraspinal region, measuring approximately 10 × 10 cm. The swelling was tense and tender. Motor power in the lower limbs was 0/5, with a sensory level at the T10 vertebra, and saddle anesthesia was also present. Examination of the upper limbs was unremarkable. Based on the history and clinical examination, the differential diagnoses included metastatic disease, sarcoma, and abscess. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with contrast revealed a large soft tissue mass measuring 99 × 96 mm in the left posterior paravertebral compartments at the lower lumbar region, suggestive of a neurogenic tumor (Fig.1). Further metastatic workup included computed tomography (CT) of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, which showed no metastatic lesions except for a large neoplastic mass in the left paraspinal region (12.4 × 12.2 × 19.2 cm). After investigations, the differentials included malignant nerve sheath tumor and soft tissue sarcoma. MRI with contrast showing large soft tissue mass measuring 99 × 96 mm in the left posterior paravertebral compartments at the lower lumbar region (yellow arrow). Subsequent workup included Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan, which demonstrated a soft tissue mass in the left paraspinal region with erosion of the 12th rib and adjoining L1-2 vertebrae no primary source was noticeable from the usual sites of occurrence (Fig.2). Ultrasound (USG)-guided biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of Leiomyosarcoma, French Fédération Nationale des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer (FNCLCC) grade 2.5 (Fig.3). PET CT scan findings favouring soft tissue mass in left paraspinal region causing erosion of the 12th rib and adjoining transverse process of L1-2 vertebra. Histopathology under light microscope with hematoxylin and eosin (H & E) stains. Section reveals smooth muscle cells arranged in vague whorling pattern. The nuclei show marked pleomorphism and the section reveals high mitotic activity. Patient was scheduled for surgery in elective operation theatre. Under general anesthesia, intraoperative findings revealed a greyish, highly vascular tumor attached to adjacent structures. All tumor tissue was successfully excised, and hemostasis was secured. A closed-drain system was placed in the cavity. There were no intraoperative complications, and recovery from general anesthesia was smooth. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) for monitoring and later to the female ward. She had an in-hospital stay of two days. The drain was removed, and the patient was discharged with follow-up guidelines. Histopathological evaluation of the resected trucut biopsy confirmed Leiomyosarcoma, FNCLCC Grade 2. Immunohistochemistry showed positivity for SMA, while staining for desmin, S100, and CD31 was negative. Upon follow-up, the patient returned to the OPD with complaints of pus discharge from the wound. She was admitted, and the wound was explored, washed, and pus was drained in the emergency operation theatre. Recovery from anesthesia was smooth, and the patient was shifted to the ward. Antibiotics were started, and the pus was sent for culture and sensitivity testing. The patient was referred for adjuvant therapy to another hospital and was lost to follow up for the second clinic appointment afterwards.