A 35-year-old woman with a history of one vaginal delivery and one cesarean section presented with severe lower back pain accompanied by right-sided radicular pain starting at 25 weeks of gestation (Figure 1). She had experienced mild lower back pain during her previous pregnancies, which resolved without medical intervention or medication. Initially, she was treated with an analgesic (Tab sodium diclofenac 100) and bed rest at home. At this stage, a comprehensive baseline neurological examination was performed, including assessment of muscle strength using the Medical Research Council scale, which revealed mild muscle weakness graded 4 out of 5 in muscles innervated by the L4 and L5 nerve roots. Deep tendon reflexes, including the patellar and Achilles reflexes, were also evaluated. Sensory examination involved a detailed assessment of responses to light touch, pain, and temperature changes within the corresponding dermatomal distributions. In addition, the Lasegue test (straight leg raise) was utilized to assess sciatic nerve tension and irritation. The examination findings indicated mild neurological deficits, including slight muscle weakness and diminished light touch sensation in the L5 dermatome distribution. At 29 weeks of gestation, her pain worsened and did not respond to oral medications. The patient visited the emergency department several times, requesting intravenous analgesia (paracetamol 1 g), but her symptoms did not improve. Due to the severity of the pain and lack of response to medication, physiotherapy was not pursued at the patient’s request, as she preferred surgical intervention. Therefore, no physiotherapy was performed prior to surgery. Two weeks later, she presented to medical facilities with a positive Lasegue test and more pronounced neurological deficits, including reduced muscle strength (grade 4) in the right L5 nerve root. The Lasegue test was positive at 30°, and a 40% reduction in muscle strength was noted during right leg extension. 14 The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) score was reported as 10. 15 Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a right-sided L4–L5 disk herniation. At the patient’s request, surgery was deferred until after delivery. However, due to the persistence of symptoms despite conservative treatments and severe, intolerable pain affecting the patient’s daily activities, surgery was scheduled. After consulting with the patient and her family, a discectomy was performed at 32 weeks of gestation. The patient was transferred to the operating room and positioned in the left lateral decubitus position to prevent abdominal compression. Special pads were placed under the chest area, around the abdomen, and under the legs. Using anatomical landmarks (iliac crest), the L4–L5 level was identified without fluoroscopy to avoid ionizing radiation exposure. The surgery was performed under spinal anesthesia with a 3.5 cm Whitacre needle at the L3–L4 interspace and the injection of 150 mg of bupivacaine. Fifteen minutes after the induction of anesthesia, the surgery began and lasted ~1 h and 20 min. A right-sided discectomy at the L4–L5 level was performed, and the extruded disk fragment was successfully removed. Throughout the surgery, all hemodynamic parameters were closely monitored, and no instability was observed in either the mother’s or the fetus’s condition. Fetal monitoring was conducted using Doppler ultrasound every 15 min during the procedure, with no changes in heart rate (140–160 beats/min) noted. After surgery, the patient was repositioned in the supine position, and heart rate and blood pressure were reassessed. If any signs of hypotension occurred, ephedrine was administered. Post-surgery, fetal heart rate (FHR) monitoring and ultrasound were normal. The patient was discharged on the fourth day postoperatively without pain in the right lower extremity. Following discectomy at 32 weeks of gestation and the patient’s full recovery, there was no need for postoperative physiotherapy, and the patient achieved a satisfactory level of functional status. Two weeks after surgery, the patient’s muscle strength returned to normal (Lasegue test negative), and the VAS score for pain was 1. Due to the sensitivity of the patient’s condition after surgery, only diclofenac 100 mg was used for severe pain. At 39 weeks of gestation, the patient underwent a cesarean section due to functional dystocia and delivered a healthy newborn weighing 3500 g. The Apgar score at 1 and 5 min was 10/10, and no complications were observed. Postpartum follow-up for back pain was conducted, and the VAS score was 0 at the second week and 1 month after delivery. MRI showed a large disk herniation at L4/L5 expanded to the spinal canal more at 32 weeks of gestation. MRI: magnetic resonance imaging.