A 43-year-old woman was brought to our emergency department after losing consciousness in a high-speed highway collision in which her vehicle rear-ended another car. Surveillance footage from her dashboard camera showed no direct impact from a hard object; instead, the force of the collision appeared to be absorbed primarily by her torso. She had no known history of hypertension or cerebrovascular disease and there was no family history of intracranial aneurysms, Ehlers–Danlos Syndrome, or Marfan syndrome. On arrival, her vital signs in the emergency room were as follows: blood pressure at 145/92 mmHg, heart rate at 95 beats per minute, and respiratory rate at 15 breaths per minute. She had regained consciousness with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of E4V4M6. The patient reported retrograde amnesia, headache, and severe lower back pain. No focal neurological deficits were identified on initial examination. A non-contrast brain computed tomography (CT) scan revealed diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) with a thickness exceeding 1 mm within the basal cistern, predominantly along the left side ambient cistern (Figure 1a). Subsequent CT angiography (CTA) was performed to investigate the etiology of the SAH and demonstrated an irregular vessel contour in the left PCA P2 segment, with a focal arterial pouch consistent with a dissecting aneurysm with a saccular rupture component (Figure 1b). Evaluation of the lumbar spine using CT (Figure 2a) and axial T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (Figure 2b) revealed an L2 burst fracture with significant spinal canal compromise, resulting in approximately 65% dural sac stenosis. Digital subtraction catheter angiography (DSA) with 3D rotational angiographic acquisition was performed using the Siemens Artis Q angiography system with PURE technology (Siemens Healthineers, Forchheim, Germany). Image reconstruction and aneurysm morphometric quantitative measurements were performed on the Siemens syngo X-Workplace using the syngo 3D Angio (Dyna3D) module. The DSA identified an approximately 5 mm long fusiform dilation along the anterior portion of the left PCA P2 segment (Figure 3a, D1), accompanied by an inferiorly projecting saccular pouch measuring 2.5 mm in diameter (Figure 3a, D2). These findings were diagnostic of a ruptured dissecting aneurysm with a superimposed saccular aneurysm sac (Figure 3a). All cerebrovascular imaging examinations was performed by neuroradiologist Dr. Wu Ming-Ji. A second neuroradiologist Dr. Shen Chao-Yu independently reviewed the images and confirmed the morphometric measurements. Based on her clinical presentation and radiologic findings, the SAH resulting from rupture of the left PCA P2 segment dissection aneurysm was categorized as Hunt and Hess Grade II [6] and Fisher Grade 3 [7]. The L2 burst fracture was categorized according to the AO Spine Thoracolumbar Classification System as Type A4,N0 [8]. The patient’s initial functional status corresponded to a Barthel Index score of 45 and a modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score of 3. After multidisciplinary discussion with the neuroradiologists at the Neurovascular Center of Chun Shan Medical University Hospital regarding the prevention of rebleeding from the left PCA dissecting aneurysm, the patient underwent reconstructive endovascular treatment (rEVT) performed by Dr Wu. This intervention was carried out approximately 30 h after the SAH after obtaining informed consent of off-label usage of flow-diverting stent in traumatic cerebral aneurysm from the patient and her family and involved the use of a flow-diverting stents with coiling with significant self-paid expenses. Given the high risk of rebleeding in dissected arteries, along with the potential of in-stent thrombosis and thromboembolic complications following flow-diverting stent deployment, a relatively conservative antiplatelet regimen was selected. The patient received a single loading dose of clopidogrel (Sanofi, Paris, France) 300 mg, administered 8 h before deployment of the device. A Pipeline Flex embolization device (PED Flex device, Medtronic, Irvine, CA, USA) measuring 2.5 mm × 16 mm was positioned across the left PCA P2 segment to reconstruct the parent artery. Subsequently, targeted coil embolization of the saccular pouch in the middle left PCA P2 segment was performed using a stent-assisted coiling technique. The endovascular treatment resulted in near-complete elimination of contrast opacification within the previously visualized dissecting pouch, indicating successful occlusion of the false lumen of the PCA dissection aneurysm (Figure 3b). No immediate procedure-related complications or newly developed neurologic deficits after transarterial embolization (TAE). During the subsequent two weeks after rEVT, the patient exhibited no post SAH sequelae, such as cerebral vasospasm, hydrocephalus, or hyponatremia and maintained antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel 100 mg daily. The lumbar spinal surgery was performed for L2 burst fracture using a MISS approach without discontinuing antiplatelet therapy. This procedure included left L2 hemilaminectomy for decompression, and percutaneous transpedicle screw fixation from L1 to L3, with preservation of the supraspinous ligament and paraspinal muscle structures. The patient was maintained on clopidogrel 75 mg daily for one year, with scheduled follow-up imaging that included brain MRI with MRA at three months and one year, as well as a DSA after TAE at six months. These studies were obtained to evaluate interval changes in the configuration of the left PCA aneurysm and to monitor for potential thromboembolic events or in-stent thrombosis following the endovascular procedure. Follow-up brain MRA demonstrated a patent left PCA without evidence of thromboembolism (Figure 4a). The six-month DSA confirmed complete and durable occlusion of the dissection aneurysm, without recurrence or parent artery stenosis (Figure 4b). The patient was discharged approximately one month after the SAH and subsequently recovered well following both the TAE and MISS. At the one-year follow-up, she had a Barthel Index score of 100, and a mRS score of 0, indicating full function independence.