A 36-year-old male presented with lower back pain, bilateral lower extremity pain, and weakness for 8 months. He reported no history of trauma or sphincter abnormalities. Flushing, diarrhea, wheezing, and shortness of breath are carcinoid symptoms that were not present in the index case. There were no specific neurological impairments found during the neurological evaluation. Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CEMRI) of the lumbosacral spine showed a well-defined, heterogeneously enhancing intradural mass lesion measuring 4.5 cm × 2.5 cm × 1.5 cm in the spinal canal, extending from the lower L3 vertebral level to the L4–5 disc level. It was causing scalloping of the posterior aspect of the L4 lumbar vertebral body. No neural foraminal extension was noted [Figure 1]. A nerve sheath tumor, meningioma, and myxopapillary ependymoma are the key differential diagnoses based on clinical symptoms and radiological analysis. A lumbar laminectomy from L3 to L5 was done, and the tumor was removed en bloc. The patient underwent durotomy, entire excision of the lesion, and L4-L5 laminectomy. Prolene sutures were used to close the dura. Following surgery, the patient had a complete recovery without any neurological deficit, and postoperatively, CEMRI of the lumbosacral spine showed that the lesion had been entirely removed. Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance image of lumbosacral spine showing well-defined heterogeneously enhancing intradural extramedullary mass lesion in the spinal canal* The resected specimen was received in 10% formalin and measured 4.5 cm × 2.0 cm × 1 cm. The outer surface of the specimen was smooth. The cut surface showed grayish-white, homogeneous solid areas. The hematoxylin and eosin stain sections from the growth showed a cellular tumor disposed of in nests and trabeculae separated by a fibrovascular stroma. These tumor cells had round to oval nuclei, fine to coarse chromatin, and a moderate amount of eosinophilic granular cytoplasm. There was no evidence of a mitotic figure, necrosis, or apoptosis [Figure 2a and b]. (a) Photomicrograph of hematoxylin and eosin stained section of mass displaying cellular tumor disposed of in nests and trabeculae separated by fibrovascular stroma (×100), (b) Microscopy of tumor displaying round to oval nuclei, fine to coarse chromatin and a moderate amount of eosinophilic granular cytoplasm (×400), (c) Photomicrograph of immunohistochemistry stain displaying a positive expression of Synaptophysin, (d) Chromogranin, (e) Ki-67 proliferation index of ~ 1% among tumor cells (×400), and (f) No expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (×400) On the basis of clinical findings, radiological examination, and histomorphology, the main list of differentials was an ependymoma, a meningioma, and a neuroendocrine tumor. The neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and chromogranin were found to be positive on immunohistochemistry. Weak and focal expression of cytokeratin AE1/AE3 was also noted in tumor cells. There was no expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S100, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), or vimentin. The Ki-67 proliferative index was ~1%. GFAP was negative [Figure 2c–f]. Histomorphology and immunohistochemistry were consistent with neuroendocrine tumor grade I (CT). Postoperatively, the patient underwent additional investigations in the light of this extremely rare diagnosis, including contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) of the neck, chest, and abdomen with the addition of a gallium-68 octreotide positron emission tomography scan to rule out any other lesion elsewhere in the body. Further evaluation revealed no additional lesions. At the 2-year follow-up after surgery, there was no clinical or radiological evidence of tumor recurrence or metastasis.