A 55-year-old male presented with a 4-month history of worsening lower-limb pain, numbness, and weakness, along with weight loss and poor appetite. He had no fever, trauma, or respiratory symptoms. Examination showed lower-limb muscle wasting with preserved distal movements. MRI revealed D12/L1 spondylodiscitis with Grade 1 vertebral collapse, peripheral epidural abscess, and bilateral psoas abscesses. Laboratory tests showed lymphocytosis and significantly elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Histopathology demonstrated granulomatous inflammation with caseation, and Mycobacterium TB was confirmed on acid-fast bacillus smear and polymerase chain reaction. The patient was started on Category-2 anti-TB treatment (ATT) (H, R, Z, E with pyridoxine). Hepatotoxicity required temporary cessation of HRZ; later H and R were reintroduced, Z was discontinued, and levofloxacin was added. He was managed conservatively with a long Taylor brace and multidisciplinary care. The case presentation patient was a 55-year-old male who reported experiencing pain and weakness in his lower limbs over the previous 4 months, which progressively worsened despite treatment with analgesics. He had experienced numbness in his lower limbs for several days before his admission. There was no history of prior injury, and the patient was afebrile with no symptoms of chills. He did, however, experience general weakness, lack of appetite, drowsiness, apathy, and weight loss. There were no respiratory symptoms, such as a productive cough. Clinical examination revealed atrophy of the lower limb muscles, although he was still able to move his feet. Imaging, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), confirmed a diagnosis of spondylodiscitis at the D12/L1 level, characterized by a Grade 1 collapse of both vertebral bodies, heterogeneous enhancement, a peripheral enhancing epidural abscess, and involvement of the psoas muscles, resulting in psoas abscess formation (Fig. 1 and 2). Diagnosis of spondylodiscitis at the D12/L1 level, sagittal view. Diagnosis of spondylodiscitis at the D12/L1 level, coronal view. Laboratory investigations at different intervals of case management are shown in Tables 1, 2, 3, 4. At the start of treatment After 1 week of starting the treatment After withholding anti-tuberculosis treatment for 1 week After 1 month of treatment Chest radiography revealed no abnormalities in the lungs, while the Mantoux test was returned positive. Both acid-fast bacilli and polymerase chain reaction tests from cultures of the abscess and surrounding soft tissues were positive for mycobacterium TB. Histological examination indicated granulomatous inflammation with central caseous necrosis, Langerhans giant cells, and epithelioid cells encircled by lymphocytes. The patient was initiated on anti-TB treatment (ATT) Category 2, which included isoniazid (H), ethambutol (E), rifampicin (R), pyrazinamide (Z), and pyridoxine supplements. A long Taylor brace was also applied. After a few days, liver function tests showed abnormalities, leading to the discontinuation of HRZ, while E was continued. H and R were later reintroduced gradually without hepatotoxicity. Z was permanently stopped as it was suspected to be the cause of liver damage. Subsequently, levofloxacin (L) was added to the HREL regimen. In addition to medical management, the patient received conservative care, with a multidisciplinary team approach involving specialists in infectious diseases, orthopedic surgery, and rehabilitation therapy. The patient exhibited significant improvements in both symptoms and functional outcomes. This case emphasizes the importance of early recognition and treatment of tuberculous spondylitis to mitigate complications and prevent disability. Management of spinal TB should be conducted through a multidisciplinary approach. Medical therapy using anti-tuberculous medications forms the foundation of treatment, typically employing a multidrug regimen that includes HRZ and E over an extended duration. Two months of HRZE (the intensive phase) should be followed by 10 months of HRE (the continuation phase). The duration of treatment is 12 months, which can be extended to 18 months as needed. Regular follow-ups for patients with spinal TB are crucial to assess the need for surgical intervention. The following protocol should be adhered to during follow-ups. Patients with neurological deficits should have their condition staged and graded at each visit. Patients without neurological deficits should be monitored weekly for any signs of neurological compromise. Repeat X-rays of the spine should be conducted every 3 months. A repeat contrast-enhanced MRI should be performed after 6 months if there are concerns about an inadequate response to treatment. Following 6 months of treatment, further evaluation is warranted only if there are concerns regarding inadequate therapeutic response, although this is not necessary in most cases. At the conclusion of treatment (12 months), an assessment should be carried out to evaluate healing before therapy is terminated. If findings reveal inactive, burnt-out infections, such as bony or fibrous ankylosis or thin-walled cysts without enhancement, there is no need to continue with ATT. After the treatment ends, follow-ups should occur every 6 months for a minimum of 2 years. Fig. 1 shows a sagittal view in a diagnosis of spondylodiscitis at the D12/L1 level. It is characterized by a Grade 1 collapse of both vertebral bodies, heterogeneous enhancement, a peripheral enhancing epidural abscess, and involvement of the psoas muscles, resulting in psoas abscess formation. Fig. 2 shows a coronal view in a diagnosis of spondylodiscitis at the D12/L1 level. It is characterized by a Grade 1 collapse of both vertebral bodies, heterogeneous enhancement, a peripheral enhancing epidural abscess, and involvement of the psoas muscles, resulting in psoas abscess formation.