We report a case of a 68-year-old female patient who underwent revision surgery for multilevel spinal canal stenosis. A written agreement form was signed by the patient’s part, giving us her consent to publish information and media relevant to her case. The patient has a history of hypertension and dyslipidemia under treatment, and a BMI of 28, while she did not mention any previous incident of pancreatitis. An uneventful open posterior fusion L3-S1 and decompression was performed with L3-L4 PLIF as demonstrated in (Figure 1), with no evident anterior screw breach and proper cage placement. Postoperative CT scan demonstrating the posterior lumbar spinal fixation The surgical time under anesthesia was 158 minutes, while the intraoperative blood loss was less than 1 litre. On the first postoperative day, the patient was complaining about sudden onset diffuse abdominal pain with nausea. An immediate blood serum examination was ordered and revealed significantly elevated levels of serum amylase, CRP, and white blood cells as shown in (Table 1 ). Laboratory tests at the 1st postoperative day Postoperative Test Result Normal Range WBC 21.000 4.6-10.2 χ10^3/μL CRP 20.90 <0.31 mg/dL LDH 278 125-243 IU/L SGOT 23 5-34 IU/L SGPT 13 <55 IU/L AMS 1240 25-125 IU/L γ-GT 19 9-36 IU/L CREATININE 0.53 0.60-1.10mg/dL PROCALCITONIN 0.30 <0.50ng/mL An abdominal CT scan showed signs of acute pancreatitis (Figure 2), the yellow arrows demonstrate high signal intensity effusions distributing around the pancreatic head, along the right lateroconal fascia and between the bowel loops, respectively (Figure 2). As shown in a coronal reconstruction of abdomen computed tomography images, the solid white arrow show the edematous pancreatic head with the partially indistinct margins, whereas the blank arrow heads to the adjacent effusion accumulating to the weight-dependent part of the abdominal cavity (Figure 3). Additionally, the MRI scan reconfirmed the diagnosis of pancreatitis with pathological fluid collection (Figure 4). The management was solely conservative with diet modification and fluids. The total hospital length of stay was 21 days, while the usual one in our department for this type of surgical procedure is 3-5 days. Finally, the remission of the abdominal symptomatology was achieved on the 17th postoperative day. Axial T2 FS weighted images of the upper (a) and lower (b) abdominal cavity. The yellow arrows show the high signal intensity effusions distributing around the pancreatic head, along the right lateroconal fascia and between the bowel loops, respectively Coronal reconstruction of abdomen computed tomography images. The solid white arrow shows the edematous pancreatic head with the partially indistinct margins, whereas the blank arrow heads to the adjacent effusion accumulating to the weight-dependent part of the abdominal cavity Axial view of MRI scan demonstrating reactive fluid collection and confirming the presence of pancreatitis