A 32-year-old non-smoking Caucasian male sustained a Gustilo-Anderson grade 1 open fracture of the left tibia and fibula, initially treated with intramedullary nailing. The proximal interlocking screw was later removed for dynamization to promote axial loading, but radiographs demonstrated inadequate tibial healing. He subsequently underwent exchange intramedullary nailing with proximal and distal interlocking, fibular osteotomy, preparation of the tibial non-union site, and bone grafting from the fibular osteotomy. Despite these interventions, progressive radiographs continued to demonstrate inadequate healing. Workup revealed osteoporosis (lumbar T-score –2.5) and hypogonadism (testosterone 200 ng/dL). Medical optimization was initiated with testosterone supplementation and teriparatide injections. Due to persistent pseudoarthrosis, the patient ultimately underwent open preparation of the tibial non-union site with eburnation, application of recombinant BMP-2, and iliac crest autograft. Subsequent radiographs demonstrated healing of both the tibia and fibula, with mild valgus alignment that was clinically insignificant. The patient was pleased with the results and is doing better overall. A 32-year-old non-smoking Caucasian male sustained a left grade one open tibia and fibula fracture following a motor vehicle accident. This can be seen in Fig. 1. Initial management included open reduction and internal fixation with an interlocked intramedullary nail and irrigation and debridement of the open fracture. The patient had no history of diabetes, smoking, or alcohol abuse. Family history was negative for osteoporosis or metabolic bone disease. He reported decreased libido and fatigue but had not undergone prior endocrine evaluation. Radiographs of the left tibia and fibular fracture associated with a Gustilo-Anderson grade 1 open fracture with intact neurological and vascular status. At 4 months, radiographs demonstrated delayed union, as noted in Fig. 2. The proximal interlocking screws were removed to allow dynamization. Six months later, persistent non-union was present, with continued pain and difficulty bearing weight. He subsequently underwent exchange intramedullary nailing with interlocking, fibular osteotomy, local bone grafting, and debridement of the pseudoarthrosis site. Despite these procedures, serial radiographs over the following months showed no evidence of progressive healing, as seen in Fig. 3. Radiographs identified that there was a non-union or pseudoarthrosis associated with the tibia, but there was healing associated with the fibula. The proximal interlocking screw removal is identified with the lack of a screw proximally. Radiographs prior to final surgery showing fibular pseudoarthrosis and tibial non-union despite prior interventions. Further evaluation revealed metabolic bone disease. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry demonstrated osteoporosis with a lumbar spine T-score of –2.5, total hip –1.9, and femoral neck –1.5. Laboratory studies confirmed hypogonadism with low serum testosterone. Six months after exchange nailing, the patient underwent open reduction and treatment of tibial pseudoarthrosis with augmentation of the non-union site using two pledgets of rhBMP-2 (Medtronic INFUSE™, total dose 4.2 mg) and iliac crest autograft. Intraoperatively, the pseudoarthrosis site was debrided and prepared before grafting. The intramedullary nail was retained for stability. Fig. 4 for post-operative imaging. Radiographs demonstrate healing of the tibia and fibula after isolated tibial revision with debridement, hardware removal, bone morphogenetic protein application, and iliac crest bone grafting, without intervention at the fibular site. At the patient’s last post-operative visit, he stated his pain as a 2/10 and occurring only occasionally. The patient reported being very satisfied with the outcome.