A 77-year-old male with a history of intravesical BCG therapy for non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer presented with a 2-month history of severe low back pain, focal lumbar tenderness, but no neurological deficits. He was afebrile and the C-reactive protein was elevated (3.0 mg/dL). The lumbar Magnetic resonance imaging (MR) demonstrated L1/2 spondylodiscitis with bilateral psoas muscle nodular lesions suspicious for abscesses. The computed tomography confirmed destructive changes at the L1 inferior endplate and a fracture line through the left L2 pedicle. The patient underwent a percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal discectomy with debridement. The tuberculosis Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) returning positive while TB interferon-gamma release assay (T-SPOT) remained indeterminate. Anti-tuberculous therapy (isoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol; pyrazinamide excluded due to Mycobacterium bovis natural resistance) was initiated for 9 months; the patient initially, clinically improved. However, progressive vertebral collapse with kyphotic deformity (11°– 37°) and bilateral posterior thigh pain developed during treatment. Twelve months later, the patient required, posterior instrumentation from T10-L5 with anterior column reconstruction at L1–2, plus the reinstitution of 6 months of additional anti-tuberculous therapy. A 77-year-old mlae presented with a 2-month history of severe low back pain but was neurologically intact. Two years ago, he had been treated for non-muscle-invading bladder cancer consisting of transurethral resection with standard intravesical BCG therapy (Tokyo 175); the BCG regimen consisted of 6 weekly induction instillations followed by maintenance therapy. At present, laboratories studies showed elevated C-reactive protein (3.0 mg/dL) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (45 mm/h) levels, but the l white blood cell count (8,050/μL) was normal, and blood cultures were negative. The lumbar magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated L1/2 spondylodiscitis (i.e., T1 hypointense/T2 hyperintense signal changes in both vertebral bodies crossing the disc space), and several nodular lesions in both psoas muscles; findings were consistent with osteomyelitis and abscess [Figure 1]. The computed tomography (CT) confirmed these findings, adding evidence of destructive changes at the L1 inferior endplate plus a left L2 pedicle fracture [Figure 2]. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging findings of L1/2 tuberculous spondylodiscitis. (a) Sagittal Short tau inversion recovery sequence (STIR) image shows hyperintense signal in L1/2 vertebral bodies and disc space with preserved disc height. (b) Sagittal T1-weighted image demonstrates hypointense signal changes at L1 inferior and L2 superior endplates. (c) T2-weighted image reveals hyperintense inflammatory changes in vertebral bodies and disc space. (d) Axial T2-weighted image displays bilateral psoas muscle nodular lesions consistent with abscesses, characteristic of hematogenous Bacille Calmette–Guérin dissemination pattern. Computed tomography (CT) images demonstrating progressive structural deterioration from initial presentation to 11 months postdiagnosis despite anti-tuberculous therapy. (a and b) Initial CT shows early destructive changes at L1 inferior endplate. (c) 11-month coronal CT demonstrates significant vertebral collapse progression. (d) 11-month sagittal CT displays severe kyphotic deformity progression from 11° to 37°, validating surgical intervention necessity. The patient underwent a percutaneous endoscopic transforaminal discectomy with debridement, intraoperatively, a turbid whitish exudate was encountered, and necrotic disc material was removed [Figures 1-3]. The tissue tuberculosis PCR test was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, while T-SPOT. TB was indeterminate (i.e., consistent with M. bovis infection). Histopathology revealed chronic granulomatous inflammation. Postoperative imaging demonstrating successful surgical reconstruction with restored spinal alignment and stability. (a) Sagittal computed tomography (CT) shows T10-L5 posterior pedicle screw instrumentation with anterior column reconstruction at L1/2 level, restoring appropriate spinal alignment. (b) Coronal CT demonstrates symmetric bilateral pedicle screw placement with optimal hardware positioning. (c) Lateral X-ray confirms successful correction of the 37° kyphotic deformity with maintained sagittal balance. For 9 months, anti-tuberculous therapy includingisoniazid, rifampicin, and ethambutol (pyrazinamide excluded due to M. bovis resistance) was administered and assocaited with clinical improvement, and normalization of inflammatory markers. However, over the next 12 months, the patient exhibited progressive kyphotic deformity (i.e., increasing from 11° to 37)° and developednew bilateral posterior thigh pain (i.e., Comprehensive Spinal Tuberculosis Score increased from 5 to 9.5). Secondary surgery included; posterior instrumentation (T10-L5) and anterior column reconstruction (L1–2). Although intraoperative cultures showed no active infection, anti-tuberculous therapy was reinstituted for the next 6 months. At the 18-month follow-up, the patient’s pain resolved and radiograophic studies confirmed solid L1/2 fusion without evidence of recurrent infection.