A 77-year-old man, whose symptoms were diagnosed as age-related (because of no ventriculomegaly and negative tap test) at a hospital visited 3 months prior, came to our clinic presenting with gait disturbance, cognitive decline, and urinary incontinence (iNPH triad). His responses to questions were very slow, and his Mini–Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 11/30. The patient was unable to stand up from his wheelchair without assistance and had difficulty in taking the first step. On examination, his EI was 0.26 and tap test was negative. However, iNPH was strongly suspected because imaging showed unclear cerebral sulci at the parietal level, a narrow callosal angle, and a disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space. Lumbar drainage was performed for 2 days, which improved his gait ability and increased his MMSE score to 17/30. We then performed shunt surgery. At 2 months after surgery, he was able to walk freely and independently around the hospital, his MMSE score improved to 25/30, and he was discharged home. A 77-year-old man visited a local certain hospital 3-month prior, complaining of worsening forgetfulness and a narrower stride than ever. He could walk steadily and his MMSE score was 19/30. Head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed opening of the subdural space without ventriculomegaly and moderate leukoaraiosis in the deep white matter [Figure 1] (coronal imaging was not performed). A tap test was performed but was negative, and his symptoms were considered age-related. However, 3-month later, his wife took him to our hospital because he could not walk without help, demonstrated strange behaviors, and had urinary incontinence. His responses to questions were very slow, and his MMSE score had decreased to 11/30. He could not stand up from his wheelchair without assistance, and he had difficulty taking the first step. Although he walked with assistance, his stride was extremely narrow, and he wobbled and almost fell. Head computed tomography (CT) showed no evidence of enlarged ventricles, with an EI of 0.26. However, imaging showed obscure parietal sulci, a callosal angle of 78.3°, enlarged bilateral Sylvian fissures, and a disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space, which strongly indicated iNPH [Figure 2a]. Perfusion CT displayed decreased cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the deep white matter around the lateral ventricles and at the parietal cortex, and mean transit time (MTT) was delayed except in the high frontal lobes [Figure 2b]. There was no reflux of contrast media to the third and lateral ventricles on CT cisternography [Figures 3a and 3b], and after 24 h, the contrast media had diffused into the basal cisterns, Sylvian fissures, and cerebral sulci, with minimal diffusion into the disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space [Figure 3b]. His cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure measured by lumbar tap was 9.0 cmH2O, and 40 mL of CSF was drained by spontaneous dripping. Examination of the CSF revealed the number of leukocyte 5 (mononuclear 4 and polymorphonuclear 1), protein 40.6 mg/dL, glucose 61mg/dL, and phosphorylated tau protein <25 pg/mL. Tap test evaluated 3 and 24 h after the lumbar puncture was both negative, showing no improvement in gait ability in either the TUG test or the 10-m walking test and no significant increase in MMSE score [Table 1]. TUG was defined as the time taken to stand up from sitting in a wheelchair, walk back and forth for 3 m, and finish sitting in the wheelchair again. Ten-meter (10-m) walk was defined as the time taken to walk back and forth for 5 m. Based on the report that prolonged external lumbar drainage in excess of 300 mL is associated with high sensitivity and high positive predictive value for shunt surgery in iNPH patients,[11] evacuation of 300 mL CSF/day for 2 days by continuous lumbar drainage was performed. As a result, his walking ability dramatically improved and MMSE score increased to 17/30 [Table 1]. Under the conviction that shunt surgery could improve his symptoms, ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt was performed on the patient (Codman Hakim programmable valve, Integra Japan, Tokyo). A shunt valve pressure control was initiated at 110 mmH2O and a final shunt pressure was set at 70 mmH2O, and his symptoms markedly improved [Table 1]. Follow-up CT showed shrinkage of the ventricle size (EI of 0.23), fading of the PVL, narrowing of the Sylvian fissure, clarification of the parietal sulci, and widening of the callosal angle (91.5°) [Figure 4a]. A definitive increase in CBV and CBF, and shortening of the MTT, was also identified on postoperative perfusion CT, especially in the deep white matter [Figure 4b]. At 2 months after the VP shunt, the patient had an MMSE score of 25/30 [Table 1]. The patient also showed a wider stride, and a faster and more stable gait, after shunt surgery [Figure 5]. Furthermore, the presentation of urinary incontinence became very infrequent, and the patient was discharged home. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before surgery. (a) T-2 weighted (T2W) MRI shows no enlargement of the anterior horn of the lateral ventricles but opening of the Sylvian fissure and a mild opening of the frontotemporal subdural space. A wedge-shaped disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space is observed in the right parietal region. (b) High signal areas around bilateral lateral ventricles are identified on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery MRI. Computed tomography (CT) and perfusion CT before surgery. (a) Simple CT scan demonstrates an Evans index of 0.26 and a callosal angle of 78.3°. The Sylvian fissures are wide with clear evidence of periventricular lucency around the lateral ventricles. (b) Cerebral blood volume and (CBV) cerebral blood flow (CBF) are widely reduced, especially in the deep white matter. The mean transit time (MTT) also tends to be delayed, but the bilateral high frontal regions show normal range in blood flow times. Computed tomography (CT) cisternography. (a) CT at 6 h after administration of contrast medium into the lumbar subarachnoid space demonstrates flow of the contrast media into the cerebral aqueduct of Sylvius but no reflux into the third ventricle. (b) The contrast medium spreads into the basal cistern and subarachnoid spaces at 24 h, but not into the disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space in the right parietal region. Pre-and post-operative assessments of gait and cognitive functions Computed tomography (CT) and perfusion CT after surgery. (a) The tip of the shunt tube was placed into the left anterior horn of the lateral ventricle. The Evans index decreases to 0.23, the periventricular lucency is diminished, the Sylvian fissures become narrower, and the callosal angle increases to 91.5°. However, there is minimal improvement in the disproportionately enlarged subarachnoid space in the right parietal region. (b) Cerebral blood volume (CBV) increases diffusely in the bilateral cerebral cortex. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) also increases sporadically, particularly around the lateral ventricles. The delayed mean transit time (MTT) is improved in bilateral deep white matter. Walking before and after surgery. Before surgery, the patient was unable to stand in the wheelchair by himself and was unable to walk without assistance because it was hard for him to move his legs forward. At 2 months after surgery, he was able to stand from his chair without assistance and could walk in a stable posture with wider strides and swinging of his upper limbs.