A 2-year-old female visited the outpatient clinic with a skin fold on the back that has been present since birth, without any abnormalities in the spinal cord or any injuries. The patient had no impairments and was in good condition, displaying satisfactory feeding and playing behavior. An intradural extramedullary lesion indicating the presence of several epidermoid cysts at the L3-L4 level of the cauda equina was identified in the lumbosacral MRI. The patient underwent a surgical procedure called laminectomy and durotomy to remove a tumor. The histological examination confirmed the diagnosis of an epidermoid cyst. A 2-year-old female kid visited the outpatient clinic with a skin fold on the back that has been present since birth, without any abnormalities in the spinal cord or any injuries. The patient had no impairments and was in good condition, displaying satisfactory feeding and playing behavior. We suspected this was spina bifida initially because the location of the lesion was in the lumbar spine, and the patient presented with minimal symptoms that resembled spina bifida and decided to do an MRI. An intradural extramedullary lesion indicating the presence of several epidermoid cysts at the L3-L4 level of the cauda equina was identified in the lumbosacral MRI (Fig. 1). The MRI with contrast showed dark areas on T1 hypointense and T2 hyperintense in the L3-L4 region of the spinal cord, and the bundle of nerves called the cauda equina.Fig. 1Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the thoracolumbar spine revealed an intradural extramedullary spinal cord tumor located at the T12–L1 level (indicated by white arrows). The imaging included the following views: (a) T1-weighted sagittal, (b) T2-weighted sagittal, (c) T2-weighted axial at L3, and (d) T2-weighted axial at L4. The tumor appeared hypo-intense on the T1-weighted images and hyper-intense on the T2-weighted images.Fig. 1 Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the thoracolumbar spine revealed an intradural extramedullary spinal cord tumor located at the T12–L1 level (indicated by white arrows). The imaging included the following views: (a) T1-weighted sagittal, (b) T2-weighted sagittal, (c) T2-weighted axial at L3, and (d) T2-weighted axial at L4. The tumor appeared hypo-intense on the T1-weighted images and hyper-intense on the T2-weighted images. We employed intraoperative imaging using a mobile C-Arm to precisely locate the tumor and determine the appropriate site for the skin incision. We conducted a laminectomy followed by a durotomy at the L3-L4 region level. The patient underwent a posterior lumbar laminectomy procedure to remove a tumor, with consent from parents. The lesion's capsule was well-defined with a distinct boundary and exhibited firm adhesion to the surrounding nerve roots and blood vessels in the cauda equina region. The material had a shiny, smooth, and friable consistency. Under microscopic guidance, the cyst and capsule were meticulously evaluated and completely removed, preserving the adjacent nerve roots. Macroscopically, the lesion appeared as a single-chambered, soft cyst containing friable material (Fig. 2). Histological analysis revealed a squamous epithelium; the lumen contains keratin masses and amorphous material within a fibrous stroma (Fig. 3). The findings were consistent with an epidermoid cyst [8].Fig. 2Intraoperative images. The tumor removal was carried out under microscopic guidance. (a) Following a laminectomy from L3 to L4 and a dural incision, the tumor was fully exposed. (b) Both the spilled tumor material and the tumor mass were extracted, along with the delicate capsule, which was meticulously excised.Fig. 2Fig. 3The microscopic examination (magnification and scale bar: 4× and 40×) of the specimen reveals a cystic structure lined with squamous epithelium, with the lumen containing keratinous material and amorphous masses amidst fibrous stroma and mature adipocytes, consistent with an epidermoid cyst.Fig. 3 Intraoperative images. The tumor removal was carried out under microscopic guidance. (a) Following a laminectomy from L3 to L4 and a dural incision, the tumor was fully exposed. (b) Both the spilled tumor material and the tumor mass were extracted, along with the delicate capsule, which was meticulously excised. The microscopic examination (magnification and scale bar: 4× and 40×) of the specimen reveals a cystic structure lined with squamous epithelium, with the lumen containing keratinous material and amorphous masses amidst fibrous stroma and mature adipocytes, consistent with an epidermoid cyst. Following the surgical procedure, the patient received antibiotic treatment and underwent rehabilitation. She was discharged from the hospital after 5 days. During 1-week post-operation of the follow-up, the patient experienced neurogenic bladder dysfunction. After undergoing rehabilitation and the 1-month follow-up, there were no further complaints. It might be due to minor trauma such as nerve root irritation, thus disrupting normal nerve signals. This is proven because of the anatomical location of the lesion at the L3-L4 level, which is where the nerves that innervate the bladder (S2-S4) control bladder contractions, and the pudendal nerve controls the external urethral sphincter. After post-surgery, we consulted a urologist and were advised to do bladder training with a catheter removal method for 2 weeks, then trained with the 4–4 method for 2 weeks, 4 h closed, 4 h drained, and at night drained. It turned out that the response was good, the trial of removing the catheter after 2 weeks. MRI imaging post-operation was not performed as the patient was uncooperative, and the patient's parents faced financial constraints.