A 50-year-old female, with a known case of hypothyroidism, presented with a nine-month history of progressively severe occipital headaches associated with neck pain and rigidity. Remarkably, she reported an unintentional weight loss of 20 kg over the preceding six months. Denying any fever, nausea, vomiting, seizures, or focal deficits, she did reveal a positive family history of migraine. On examination, the patient was cachectic, conscious, alert, and oriented to time, place, and person. There was mild neck rigidity, no cranial nerve palsies, and no sensory or motor deficits. Cardiovascular and respiratory system examinations were unremarkable. The initial brain MRI showed a 37 x 19 mm complex multilobulated predominantly cystic lesion involving the velum interpositum and the trigone of the left lateral ventricle (Figures 1A, 1B), without evidence of hydrocephalus. The impression of the initial brain MRI was that the cystic lesion was likely of a benign nature. However, because of the loss of weight and to rule out the possibility of brain metastasis, a CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was performed. It showed gastric polyps. Gastroscopic biopsy revealed mild nonspecific chronic inactive gastritis. MRI of the brain four months after the initial MRI showed minimal increase in the cystic lesion and leptomeningeal spread around the medulla and upper cervical spinal cord. MRI of the whole spine showed drop metastasis at the conus medullaris and cauda equina (Figure 1C). Lumbar puncture confirmed rare, atypical epithelial cells (Figure 2). The patient underwent left parietal craniotomy and trans-superior parietal lobule approach. A gross total resection of the cystic lesion was achieved. An early postoperative MRI of the brain confirmed the gross total resection. Recovery was uneventful. The histological examination of the specimen revealed that the cyst wall was lined by a single layer of bland mucin-secreting columnar epithelium with features of typical NC, opposite to the area where the cyst was lined by a dysplastic epithelium with malignant features, including enlarged hyperchromatic nuclei with high nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratios (Figure 3A). An area in which transition features of the neurenteric cyst from benign, very bland, mucinous epithelium (left) and dysplastic epithelium (right) were identified (Figure 3B). Mitotic figures were observed in dysplastic epithelium (Figure 3C). Dissecting mucin with malignant cells was also observed (Figures 3D, 3E). The immunohistological staining revealed that the cells expressed cytokeratin 7 (Figure 4F), cytokeratin 20 (Figure 4G), CDX2 (Figure 4H), and TTF1 (Figure 4I). Staining for the p53 mutation was positive in the epithelium with malignant features (Figure 4J). The MIB-1 labeling index was almost 0% in benign areas (Figure 4K) in contrast to the high percentage in areas with dissecting mucin with malignant cells (Figure 4L, 4M). Fractionated craniospinal irradiation to a total dose of 50 Gy was completed. She developed hydrocephalus, and a ventriculoperitoneal shunt was inserted. Follow-up cranial and spinal MRI revealed increased leptomeningeal dissemination. Her level of consciousness was deteriorating, and she was fed via a nasogastric tube. She died 11 months after the craniotomy.