A 72-year-old female patient was previously treated for osteoporotic L2 body fracture with absolute stenosis of the spinal canal. Primary surgery included transpedicular stabilization two levels above and two levels below the fractured vertebra and decompression without vertebral body collapse correction. During follow up examination after a few years, the patient complained of increased low back pain with inability to maintain upright posture. Radiological assessment showed failure of the hardware and new L5 vertebral body fracture occurred. Her back pain was accentuated with loading during standing position and the patient developed limitation in walking with the range of movement limited to short distance (Fig. 1). Considering the symptoms and radiological findings, it was decided to perform a revision surgery for correction of the fracture and re-alignment of the sagittal balance. Transpedicular fixation from Th9 to S1 with pelvic alar screw was done, combined with a posterolateral corpectomy of the collapsed L2 body and L1-L3 interbody fusion with Harms cage and autologous bone (Fig. 2). Postsurgical course was uneventful, the patient was mobilized with thoraco-lumbo-sacral orthosis and was discharged on postoperative day 8. A month later, the patient was readmitted due to acute back pain after fall on the back and difficult ambulation. Computed tomography (CT) scan of thoracolumbar spine showed no additional fractures or hardware failure but eventually showed malposition of the left pedicle screw at Th11 level, which was outside the vertebral body and penetrated the periaortic space. Further examination, angiography and CT aortography were performed and showed lesion of the posterior aortic wall by the malpositioned screw that was penetrating inside the vessel by approximately 3.5 mm (Fig. 3). However, no periaortic contrast extravasation signs were observed nor the patient complained of symptoms that could be connected with it. A multidisciplinary consultation with vascular surgeon and interventional radiologist/ cardiologist (in our institution, endovascular repair of thoracic aorta is performed by cardiologist) was arranged and it was decided to perform screw removal using a combined approach, i.e., endovascular repair of the aorta and removal of the malpositioned screw in the same act. The surgery was performed in angiography theater (cath lab), but we had operating room prepared for immediate conversion to open surgery in case of uncontrolled hemorrhage. Initially, the patient was in supine position for endovascular catheter placement through the right femoral artery and another one through the left femoral artery. Aortography and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) were performed to demonstrate clear screw penetration in the aorta by approximately 0.7 cm. Then, the patient was turned to the right lateral position for posterior approach to the spine for screw removal. Intravascular-balloon catheter was placed proximally to the lesion as a prophylactic measure for vessel occlusion if major bleeding should occur. The initial plan was to place a short stent-graft at the affected aortic segment to avoid possible occlusion of the supplying arteries to the spinal cord and possible spinal cord ischemia. It was supposed to be gradually deployed as the screw removal would proceed. However, after screw removal and stent deployment (BeGraft 22x48 mm), it migrated caudally below the level of the lesion and major bleeding was observed originating from the screw path, and follow up aortography showed leakage. Due to this event, a longer self-expendable stent graft was positioned above the short one and deployed (Valiant 26x150 mm). Follow up aortography and IVUS showed satisfactory position of the implanted graft, without any further signs of periaortic contrast leak. Malpositioned screw in Th12 was removed and rods were connected (Fig. 4). The patient was stable throughout the procedure. Postoperatively, the patient was admitted in the Intensive Care Unit for the first postoperative night and removed to the ward on the next morning. The patient recovered well without complications and was discharged on postoperative day 8. CT aortography obtained at 6 months showed no contrast leak or any other changes in the affected aorta. Preoperative computed tomography scan, with reconstruction, and magnetic resonance imaging. Postoperative anteroposterior and profile radiogram. Computed tomography of thoracic spine showing misplaced left pedicle screw in Th 11; computed tomography aortogram showing the tip of the screw penetrating vessel wall. (A) Intraoperative aortography; (B) stent placing at the level of aortic lesion; (C) initial stent positioned; (D) final aortography, rod continuity established with side connectors and traversing rod.