An 88-year-old man presented to our hospital with a two-week history of general fatigue and anorexia. No apparent triggers, such as overdrinking, overexertion, or infection, were identified. He had undergone a gastrectomy for gastric cancer five years earlier. The patient had a history of lumbar spinal canal stenosis (Figure 1A), but no family history of heart disease. On physical examination, his pulse rate was 84 bpm, with blood pressure of 94/66 mmHg, body weight of 54.2 kg, body mass index of 21.2 kg/m2, and oxygen saturation of 94%. Jugular vein distension was found in a sitting position, suggesting elevated right atrial pressure. He had pitting edema in both lower limbs and thenar muscle atrophy in both hands (Figure 1B, arrows), suggestive of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome. The patient had a history of lumbar spinal canal stenosis (A). On physical examination, he had thenar muscle atrophy in both hands (B, arrows), suggestive of bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome. Laboratory studies revealed impaired hepatic function and increased troponin I level of 1,163 pg/mL (reference range: 0-26.2 pg/mL) (Table 1). The N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) level was elevated to 13,162 pg/mL (reference range: <126 pg/mL). He was admitted for further cardiac evaluation and treatment. A chest radiograph showed pulmonary congestion and pleural effusion (Figure 2A). An electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed right bundle branch block and left axis deviation, without low voltage or a pseudo-infarct pattern (Figure 3). A chest radiograph showed pulmonary congestion and pleural effusion at initial presentation (A). After two weeks of conventional heart failure therapy, the pleural effusion resolved, and the cardiothoracic ratio improved to 47% (B). After 12 weeks of conventional heart failure therapy, the cardiothoracic ratio further improved to 41% (C). An ECG revealed the right bundle branch block and left axis deviation, without low voltage or a pseudo-infarct pattern. A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed a reduced EF of 35 % without LVH, with an LV end-diastolic diameter of 50 mm (Figures 4A-4B, Table 2). Interventricular septum thickness and posterior wall thickness were 10 mm and 8 mm, respectively. Mild aortic valve stenosis with a peak velocity of 1.7 m/sec and moderate mitral valve regurgitation were observed. The early-to-late diastolic mitral flow velocity ratio was 2.5, suggesting elevated left atrial pressure (Figure 4C). The inferior vena cava diameter at end expiration was 22 mm, with a collapsibility index of 36%, suggesting fluid overload. Coronary angiography revealed no significant stenosis in the right (Figure 5A) or left coronary arteries (Figure 5B). A transthoracic echocardiography revealed a reduced EF of 35 % without LVH, with a LV end-diastolic diameter of 50 mm (A, B). Early to late diastolic mitral flow velocity ratio was 2.5, suggesting elevated left atrial pressure (C). After twelve weeks of conventional heart failure therapy, follow-up echocardiography revealed an improved EF of 55% (D, E), a decrease in LV end-diastolic diameter to 35 mm, and an early to late diastolic mitral flow velocity ratio of 0.7 (F), confirming the diagnosis of HFimpEF and indicating LV reverse remodeling and optimized volume status. LV, left ventricular Coronary angiography revealed no significant stenosis in the right (A) or left coronary arteries (B). The patient was diagnosed with non-ischemic HFrEF [8]. Oral azosemide (15 mg/day) was started immediately after admission, and spironolactone (25 mg/day), enalapril (2.5 mg/day), and carvedilol (2.5 mg/day) were subsequently added (Figure 6). His symptoms gradually disappeared with decreasing body weight. After two weeks of conventional heart failure therapy, the pleural effusion resolved, and the cardiothoracic ratio improved to 47% (Figure 2B). NT-proBNP and troponin I levels improved after treatment but remained elevated. The patient was discharged on the 17th day of hospitalization. Oral azosemide was started immediately after admission, and spironolactone, enalapril, and carvedilol were subsequently added. His symptoms gradually disappeared with decreasing body weight. Bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome and lumbar spinal canal stenosis, along with a persistent elevation in troponin levels, raised suspicion of cardiac amyloidosis, despite the absence of characteristic ECG and echocardiographic findings. The patient underwent diagnostic tests for cardiac amyloidosis. 99m-Technetium pyrophosphate (99mTc-PYP) scintigraphy demonstrated Perugini grade 2 myocardial uptake (moderate uptake equal to rib uptake), with an increased heart-to-contralateral ratio of 1.40, on both planar (Figure 7A, arrows) and single photon emission tomographic images (Figures 7B-7C, arrows) at the three-hour mark [12-16]. 99mTc-PYP scintigraphy demonstrated Perugini grade 2 myocardial uptake (moderate uptake equal to rib uptake), with an increased heart-to-contralateral ratio of 1.40, on both planar (A, arrows) and single photon emission tomographic images (B, C, arrows) at the three-hour mark. Serum and urine immunoglobulin electrophoresis revealed no abnormal bands, and the free light chain ratio (kappa-to-lambda ratio) was 1.54, which was within the normal range. At the family's request, neither an endomyocardial biopsy nor genetic testing for transthyretin mutations was performed. The patient was diagnosed with ATTR-CA non-invasively. After 12 weeks of conventional heart failure therapy, the cardiothoracic ratio further improved to 41% (Figure 2C), while the ECG remained unchanged from the initial examination. Follow-up echocardiography revealed an improved EF of 55% (Figures 4D-4E, Table 2), a decrease in LV end-diastolic diameter to 35 mm, and an early to late diastolic mitral flow velocity ratio of 0.7 (Figure 4F, Table 2), confirming the diagnosis of HFimpEF and indicating LV reverse remodeling and optimized volume status. The patient remained stable during the four-month follow-up period.