A 54-year-old man presented with head and neck pain, nausea, and vomiting. He had congenital descending aorta coarctation, which was untreated. Imaging was notable for subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) (Modified Fisher grade 3), severe congenital descending aorta coarctation, and multiple aneurysms of the anterior spinal artery and left middle cerebral artery (MCA). One month after external ventricular drainage (EVD) and lumbar drainage (LD), his clinical status gradually stabilized. Owing to the poor general condition and the presence of multiple aneurysms, open surgery was deemed unsuitable, and endovascular treatment was performed. The patient had achieved partial recovery at the15 days operative follow-up. A 54-year-old man was first admitted to the hospital with sudden head and neck pain accompanied by nausea and vomiting for 3 h (Figure 1). He had congenital descending aorta coarctation, which was left untreated. Laboratory investigations revealed negative results for antinuclear antibodies, complement components, rheumatoid factor, and immunoglobulins and the patient underwent surgical treatment for a left middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm (with details unspecified). He also had a long history of hypertension and smoking. An emergency physical examination after admission revealed that the patient was in a state of clouding of consciousness and lethargy, opened his eyes to verbal stimuli, and had decreased muscle strength in all extremities. The patient had nuchal rigidity, the Kernig sign (+), and the Brudzinski sign (+), and his Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score was 12 points (E3V5M4). Timeline of the case report. Auxiliary investigations commenced with an emergency head computed tomography (CT) scan, which revealed high-density shadows around the foramen magnum and ambient cistern, consistent with SAH (Figure 2A). The patient subsequently underwent CT angiography, which revealed a small aneurysm in the left MCA and wall irregularities in the V4 segments of bilateral vertebral arteries (Figure 2B). However, based on the hemorrhage localization observed on the CT scan and the symptoms presented by the patient, we propose that the MCA aneurysm may not have been the lesion responsible for disease onset and suspect that the SAH may have been caused by intraspinal vascular disease. In support of this speculation, thoracic CTA revealed multilevel intraspinal contrast-enhancing abnormalities along the course of the anterior spinal artery at the T2 and T5 levels (Figure 2C). Finally, digital subtraction angiography (DSA) indicated severe stenotic coarctation of the descending aorta (Figure 2D), and the V4 segments of both vertebral arteries were normal (Figures 2E,F). Superselected spinal artery angiography confirmed multiple tandem SAAs at the T2, T5, and T7 levels (Figure 3G), which is consistent with the symptoms and other imaging findings. Considering the history of CoA, we speculate that CoA may have altered the hemodynamics of the spinal arteries, leading to increased intravascular pressure, which could have resulted in aneurysm formation and subsequent rupture, causing SAH. The patient was diagnosed with SAH (Modified Fisher grade 3), severe congenital descending aorta coarctation, and multiple aneurysms of the anterior spinal artery and left MCA. (A) CT scan of the skull base showing a high-density shadow around the foramen magnum and ambient cistern (red arrow). (B) Head CTA image demonstrating a left MCA aneurysm approximately 3 mm*2 mm in size and wall irregularities in the V4 segments of both vertebral arteries (red arrows). (C) Thoracic CTA image revealing multilevel circular enhancement lesions in the area of the anterior spinal artery (red arrows). (D) Aortic arch angiography revealing severe congenital descending aorta coarctation (red arrows). (E,F) Anteroposterior and lateral DSA showing no significant abnormalities in the V4 segments of either vertebral artery (red arrows). (G) spinal angiography confirming multiple tandem aneurysm-like structures in the spinal artery at the T2, T5 and T7 vertebral levels, with sizes of 3.5*4.9(saccular), 8.3*14.6(pseudoaneurysm) and 6.9*5.5(saccular) mm (red circles), and feeding artery (red arrows). (H) Lung CT revealing bilateral pneumonia. (I) Head CT showing a large area of infarction in the right cerebral hemisphere. (J) Spinal cord angiography confirming a pseudoaneurysm at the T5 level. (K,L) Embolization of T2- and T5-level aneurysms with coils (red circles). Red arrows represent the feeding artery. (M) Multiple microguidewire attempts during T7-level aneurysm embolization failing to achieve stable positioning. (N,O) Spinal cord angiography demonstrating that the aneurysms at the T2- and T5-level aneurysms were completely embolized (red circles) Red arrows represent the feeding artery. Delayed contrast opacification of the T7-level aneurysm during the late arterial phase suggesting a low rupture propensity. Shortly after admission, the condition deteriorated rapidly manifesting sequentially as a coma, severe pneumonia, right-sided hydrocephalus and a large cerebral infarction in the right cerebral hemisphere (Figures 3H,I). To prevent re-rupture of the spinal aneurysm and stabilize the patient's vital signs in preparation for surgery. He received ventilator-assisted breathing and EVD/LD for symptomatic management. The EVD and LD were employed to relieve elevated ICP and the resulting hydrocephalus from SAH. After one month of therapeutic intervention, the vital signs stabilized, but his overall condition remained critical, characterized by systemic debilitation, low fever, phlegm, clouding of consciousness, aphasia, and pain localization. Neurological examination revealed severe paresis (muscle strength grade I in the bilateral lower limbs, grade I in the left upper limb, grade II–III in the right upper limb, and urinary and fecal incontinence), and his GCS score was 7 points. Given the poor physical condition and the presence of multilevel SAAs, open surgical intervention was not optimal because of the prohibitive perioperative risks. After the surgical options and risk benefit profiles were discussed with the family, endovascular treatment under general anesthesia was pursued. Surgical puncture of the right femoral artery of the patient was performed. A standard intravenous bolus of heparin (2,000 U) was administered after femoral access to achieve systemic anticoagulation. Intraoperative angiography revealed that the volume of the aneurysm at the T5 level was significantly greater than that before, and the aneurysm was considered a pseudoaneurysm (a responsible lesion) (Figure 3J). All the SAAs were supplied by the same radiculomedullary artery. The schematic depicts the specific anatomical structures (Figure 4). Endovascular treatment was performed in a staged manner: A 5F single-curved angiographic catheter (SCW Medicath Ltd, China）was placed through the Y valve and carefully advanced under fluoroscopy to cross the CoA under the roadmap. An Echelon 10 microcatheter (Micro Therapeutics Inc. dba ev3 Neurovascular Company, USA) was navigated over a Synchro 14 microguidewire (Stryker Neurovascular, Fremont, CA, USA) to selectively catheterize the T5-level pseudoaneurysm. Initial coil embolization of the T5-level pseudoaneurysm was successful, followed by successful embolization of the T2-level aneurysm (Target Coils, Stryker Neurovascular, Fremont, CA, USA) (Figures 3K,L). The T7-level aneurysm was ultimately not treated because excessive vessel tortuosity prevented microcatheter placement and caused significantly reduced blood flow at that location (Figure 3M). Anatomical diagram. Postoperative angiography immediately revealed complete occlusion of the T2- and T5-level aneurysms with no contrast filling and preserved patency of the spinal artery and parent artery. Delayed contrast opacification of the T7-level aneurysm during the late arterial phase suggested a low rupture propensity (Figures 3N,O), prompting the decision for secondary treatment. Postoperative intensive care, including back tapping and suction, resulted in controlled pneumonia and subsequent systemic improvement. The muscle strength in the bilateral lower limbs recovered to Grade II within 15 days after surgery.