A 47-year-old male patient underwent surgery due to a herniated disc. Isolated grade 4 facial palsy, according to the House–Brackmann scale, on the left side developed after surgery. Computed tomography revealed pneumocephalus in the basal cisterns. The patient was treated without any problems conservatively. A 47-year-old man was admitted to our clinic complaining of lower back pain and radicular pain in the left lower extremity for 2 years. The patient had no significant medical history. Neurological examination revealed decreased muscle strength in dorsiflexion of the left ankle (4/5). No other abnormalities were noted on physical and neurological examination. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine revealed a herniated disk at the left L4–5 and L5–S1 [Figure 1]. The patient underwent an L4–L5 inferior partial laminectomy, an L5–S1 foraminotomy on the left side, and an L4–L5 microdiscectomy. The operation was performed under general anesthesia in a modified prone position. A dural tear was observed during the operation. The tear was repaired by suturing with a muscle flap. Sagittal T2 magnetic resonance imaging images of L4–5 and L5–S1 intervertebral disc protrusions. In the postoperative period, an improvement in the motor deficit in the extremities was noted. Radicular leg pain also disappeared. However, he developed grade 4 facial paralysis on the left side of the face [Figure 2]. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain showed pneumocephalus in the ventricles, subarachnoid spaces, and basal cisterns [Figure 3]. In the postoperative period, bed rest was prescribed, intravenous fluids and steroids were administered, and the patient was nasally oxygenated for 24 h. The patient was discharged on the 2nd postoperative day. Three weeks after the operation, the left-sided facial paralysis had completely disappeared [Figure 4]. In the CT examination, it was observed that the air was completely resorbed [Figure 5]. Early postoperative image of the patient with peripheral facial paralysis. Pneumocephalus in the basal cisterns on axial brain computed tomography examination. Image of the patient’s facial paralysis resolved 3 weeks after surgery. Resorption of pneumocephalus on axial brain computed tomography examination 3 weeks after surgery.