An 18-year-old male college student, 173 cm tall and weighing 88 kg, with a magnetic resonance imaging of 29.4, and presented with a normal mental state and intelligence. He exhibited blue sclerae, hypoplastic teeth and symptoms consistent with OI (Fig. 1A).[1] His family comprised his parents and brother, neither of whom had a history of similar cases or other genetic diseases (Fig. 1B). Clinical and radiological findings in an OI patient with intervertebral disc herniation. (A) Blue discoloration of the sclera and dentin dysplasia in the OI patient. (B) Family pedigree map showing the characteristics of OI in the patient’s family. (C) MRI of the lumbar spine before surgery, revealing multilevel intervertebral disc herniation. (D) MRI of the lumbar spine 6 mo after surgery, demonstrated significant improvements. (E) Full-length radiograph of the spine and pelvic parameters, indicating significant changes in spinal alignment. LL = lumbar lordosis, MRI = magnetic resonance imaging, OI = osteogenesis imperfecta, PI = pelvic incidence, PT = pelvic tilt, SS = sacral slope, SVA = sagittal vertical axis, TLK = thoracolumbar kyphosis, TK = thoracic kyphosis. In January 2022, the patient presented to our hospital complaining of lumbago and left lower limb numbness. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed intervertebral disc herniations at L3-4, L4-5, and L5-S1 with left lateral nerve compression, leading to an initial diagnosis of lumbar intervertebral disc herniation (Fig. 1C). After conservative treatment failed to provide relief until March 2022, the patient underwent posterior lumbar fenestration at L3/4, L4, and L5/S1 at another hospital. However, 6 months post-surgery, the patient still experienced mild lumbago and left lower limb numbness, prompting a return to our hospital. Full-length spine radiography showed spinal imbalance with.a significant reduction in thoracic kyphosis (TK) and lumbar lordosis (LL). The spinal and pelvic parameters were as follows (Fig. 1E), TK (T4-12): 4°; thoracolumbar kyphosis (T10-L2), 3°; (LL; L1-S1), 32°; LL depth, 11 mm; sagittal vertical axis, 7 cm; pelvic incidence, 55°; pelvic tilt, 24°; and sacral slope, 31°. Bone density examination revealed severe osteoporosis with a lumbar spine Z-score value of −3.4 and a femoral neck Z-score value of −2.0. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging showed significant improvement in intervertebral disc herniation, spinal canal stenosis, and nerve compression (Fig. 1D). Intervertebral disc degeneration was classified as grade II according to the Pfirrmann classification. The patient had experienced at least 4 severe fragility fractures since birth, including 3 femoral and 1 humeral fractures, which had been managed with conservative or surgical treatment. At age 12 years, he began a 4-year course of oral alendronate sodium therapy. The most recent femoral fracture in June 2023 required surgery at our hospital, but did not heal even 4 months after surgery. We then recommended calcium and alendronate therapy, as suggested in the literature,[4] leading to significant fracture healing 7 months post-surgery. To further clarify the genetic characteristics and phenotypes of this patient, we performed whole-exome sequencing tests after obtaining consent from the patient and his family. Whole-exome sequencing of the 4 family members revealed a sporadic collagen type I alpha 1 (COL1A1) mutation (pGly148Aspfs*117; Fig. 2A), indicating that at amino acid 148 of the protein, the original glycine was replaced by aspartate because of the frameshift mutation, resulting in a subsequent alteration of the amino acid sequence and the emergence of a stop codon at the 117th amino acid, which affects the synthesis and function of COL1A1. To predict the protein structure, we used AlphaFold3 modeling (https://alphafoldserver.com/),[5] as shown in Figure 2B, which demonstrates a significantly shortened protein sequence and structural variation compared to the original COL1A1 structure. Genetic testing and protein modeling in an OI patient with intervertebral disc herniation. (A) Whole-exome sequencing revealed a sporadic COL1A1 mutation (pGly148Aspfs*117). (B) The mutated protein structure was predicted using AlphaFold3 modeling, demonstrating significant shortening and structural variation compared to the wild type COL1A1 protein. COL1A1 = collagen type I alpha 1, OI = osteogenesis imperfecta. Following conservative treatment with alendronate sodium, mecobalamin, tizanidine, and rehabilitation guidance that included lumbar back muscle exercises and weight control, the patient’s symptoms significantly improved. To date, he has been under follow-up for more than 2 years.