A 74-year-old male presented with fever, abdominal and low back pain. Initial lumbar magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated L4–5 disc herniation with foraminal and spinal canal stenosis, while abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed perinephric inflammation without structural abnormalities. Upon developing intermittent fever (38 °C), epidemiological history uncovered chronic consumption of uninspected sheep meat. Brucellosis with perinephritis was confirmed via supportive Brucella agglutination test and blood culture. A 74-year-old male developed influenza-like symptoms followed by fever, lower back pain, and right abdominal pain on March 8, 2021. He first sought medical care at an outpatient clinic, where antibiotic treatment resolved the fever but exacerbated his back pain. On March 9, he was evaluated at Wuxiang people’s hospital, where an MRI confirmed lumbar disc herniation and a CT scan revealed perinephric inflammation (Fig. 1). Laboratory tests at that time were unremarkable. Although Qingkailing and celecoxib temporarily controlled the fever, his pain persisted.Fig. 1Abdominal CT of the patient. Abdominal CT findings of the patient demonstrating perinephric fat stranding (white arrows) and bilateral anterior renal fascia thickening.Fig. 1 Abdominal CT of the patient. Abdominal CT findings of the patient demonstrating perinephric fat stranding (white arrows) and bilateral anterior renal fascia thickening. The patient was then referred to Shanxi Bethune Hospital for further management on March 16. Upon admission, gastrointestinal endoscopy and abdominopelvic CT were performed, which identified a gastric ulcer, colonic polyps, and renal cysts, with no evidence of malignancy. MRI and urinary ultrasonography only showed benign prostatic hyperplasia. Laboratory testing revealed elevated PSA (15.12 ng/mL), increased neutrophils (4.77 × 10⁹/L), and raised inflammatory markers (CRP 28.7 mg/L; ESR 38 mm/h). On March 19, he developed progressive anemia (Hb decreasing from 8.1 to 6.3 g/dL), recurrent fever (38.6℃), and severe abdominal pain (VAS 8), necessitating blood transfusion. On March 20, an epidemiological investigation uncovered a history of chronic consumption of unpasteurized sheep meat. The SAT result from March 21 showed a supportive but sub-threshold titer of 1:100 +. Definitive diagnosis was confirmed by the isolation of Brucella species from blood culture on March 23. Treatment was initiated with intravenous ceftriaxone (2 g every 12 h), oral rifampin (450 mg once daily), intravenous etimicin (300 mg once daily), and oral doxycycline (100 mg twice daily) from March 23 to April 13. The patient’s symptoms resolved within 28 days, with pain reduced to VAS 3–4, and normalization of CRP (18.01 mg/L), ESR (18 mm/h), neutrophil count (3.79 × 10⁹/L), and hemoglobin (9.6 g/dL). He was discharged with instructions to complete a 6-week course of oral antibiotics.