An 83-year-old right-handed man with a medical history of dyslipidemia, prior stroke with residual right arm weakness and numbness, and chronic right arm paresthesia secondary to cervical spondylosis presented with a sudden onset of right facial droop and aphasia. Despite his comorbidities, the patient was ambulatory and independent in activities of daily living (ADLs) prior to presentation, with a modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score of 1. He was on daily aspirin and clopidogrel for secondary stroke prevention. On arrival at the emergency department (ED), a stroke code was activated due to acute focal neurological deficits. Neurological examination revealed worsened right upper extremity weakness compared to baseline, along with new-onset right facial droop, dysarthria, and expressive aphasia. The patient’s National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score at presentation was 12 (Table 1). Clinical symptoms and examination findings were strongly indicative of an AIS localized to the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory. NIHSS: National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale In the ED, vital signs included a blood pressure of 152/96 mmHg and a point-of-care glucose level of 115 mg/dL. Laboratory results, including a comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count, prothrombin time, and international normalized ratio (INR), were all within normal limits. Non-contrast computed tomography (CT) of the head revealed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage but showed an old infarct in the left posterior parieto-occipital region, which was consistent with known clinical history (Figure 1). A CT angiogram of the head and neck demonstrated the occlusion of the left internal carotid artery (ICA) starting at the origin and extending to the cavernous segment (Figure 2). Non-contrast CT scan of the head in the axial (A and B), sagittal (C), and coronal (D) views. Findings showed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage and a remote infarct in the left posterior parieto-occipital region. CT, computed tomography; ED, emergency department CT angiogram of the neck showing the left internal carotid artery (ICA) occlusion just at the origin (green arrows) in the axial (A) and coronal (B) views. Axial CT angiogram of the head (C) showing the occlusion extending to the cavernous section of the left ICA (yellow arrow). CT: computed tomography The patient presented approximately 2.5 hours from the last known well time, which fell within the time window for IVT. Earlier that day, the patient had undergone a cervical epidural injection (CEI) for chronic right arm paresthesia. Notably, he had temporarily discontinued aspirin and clopidogrel five days prior to the procedure. The medical team contacted the patient’s son, a physician assistant, who was present during the CEI and therefore was able to provide additional details about the procedure. The CEI was performed at the C7 level and was confirmed to be uncomplicated, with clinical observations indicating that the dura had not been punctured. Aside from the recent CEI, the patient had no other absolute or relative contraindications to IVT. Neurointerventional radiology (NIR) was consulted to evaluate the safety of IVT in the context of the recent CEI. After an extensive discussion about the indications, risks, and benefits of intravenous (IV) thrombolysis, informed consent was obtained from the patient’s family, including a pointed discussion regarding the theoretically increased risk of harm as compared to typically quoted IVT risks in the context of the patient’s recent procedure. Intravenous tenecteplase (TNK) 16.5 mg was administered according to our institutional IVT protocol. The patient was transferred to a thrombectomy-capable stroke center. At the stroke center, he underwent balloon angioplasty and stenting of the left internal carotid artery (ICA). Post-procedural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain confirmed an acute ischemic infarct in the left frontal lobe. The patient remained stable without complications from TNK administration. He was discharged home on optimized medical management, including dual antiplatelet therapy, and was referred to home health physical therapy. At a one-month follow-up telephone call, the patient’s family reported improvement in his strength with physical therapy. However, he had residual aphasia that made communication challenging. By the three-month follow-up video visit, the patient had regained independence with most activities of daily living (ADLs). Because he does require assistance with some ADLs, such as preparing meals, the mRS is 1. The physical examination is limited due to the nature of the video visit. The NIHSS obtained was 6 (Table 1). While his speech had improved, he continued to experience some difficulty with naming and multistep tasks.