A 58-year-old patient presented to the emergency department with right lumbar pain irradiating into his right foot with intermittent paresthesia. The patient described the pain as bearable when he was lying on his back, but the pain increased when standing. The patient also reported that walking had become increasingly difficult over the last 48 hours. The patient denied having a lack of control of bowel movements, urinary retention, or saddle anesthesia. Furthermore, he reported not having had any recent fever, nausea or vomiting. He had been self-medicating for pain with paracetamol, without relieving his symptoms. The patient had a medical history of hypothyroidism but no relevant surgical or family history. An MRI was ordered, revealing an extramedullary spinal mass that was compressing the right L5 nerve root, with invasion of the L5 lumbar vertebral body. Bloodwork was then carried out, revealing normal hemoglobin (16.3 g/dl; n = 13.2 to 16.6). However, increasing undifferentiated blood cells were found (19.5%), with 1% consisting of myelocytes (n = 0%-0.1%) and 0.9% of erythroblasts. The patient also had mild thrombocytopenia (109,000 platelets/ml; n = 150,000 to 450,000). Suspecting an oncological disease, the patient was transferred to our tertiary hospital to continue the diagnostic workup, where he was received three days later. At the tertiary hospital, a bone marrow biopsy was performed, revealing >80% of myeloblasts. Another peripheral blood draw was carried out to perform blast immunophenotyping. This revealed that a minority of blasts were positive for CD34 (Cell surface glycoprotein), a marker for immature cells, but CD117 (c-Kit) expression was bright. Furthermore, HLA-DR (Major Histocompatibility Complex, Class II), CD33 (a marker for myeloid cells), CD13 (Aminopeptidase N), CD123 (IL-3 receptor α), CD4 (T-helper antigen), CD61 (Integrin β3), CD15 (Lewis X antigen) and CD65 (Carbohydrate antigen) markers were expressed. This led to the diagnosis of acute myeloid leukemia. Furthermore, molecular biology and next-generation sequencing demonstrated the presence of a mutated NPM1 (Nucleophosmin 1) and FLT3-TKD (FMS-like Tyrosine Kinase 3 – Tyrosine Kinase Domain) (Fig. 1).Fig. 1Histopathological image showing H&E staining of the bone marrow sample with 20X magnification (A), NPM1 markers with 31.75X magnification (B), MPO (myeloperoxidase) antibodies with 39.62X magnification (C) and CD177 markers with 40X magnification (D).Fig 1: Histopathological image showing H&E staining of the bone marrow sample with 20X magnification (A), NPM1 markers with 31.75X magnification (B), MPO (myeloperoxidase) antibodies with 39.62X magnification (C) and CD177 markers with 40X magnification (D). The patient immediately started cytarabine and daunorubicin chemotherapy, based on the 7+3 protocol, and dexamethasone [11]. This was followed by the addition of midostaurine because of the FLT3-TKD mutation. The patient’s condition continued to deteriorate, with the loss of his ability to walk two days later due to the pain. A neurological examination also revealed a loss of the patellar and ankle jerk reflex as well as an abnormal plantar reflex for his right leg, while the left leg remained unaffected. The patient also reported painful hypoesthesia and pain in the right L5 to S1 territory. An 18F-FDG-PET-CT was ordered revealing an infiltrative mass around the right paravertebral muscle, as well as the right psoas and erector spinae muscles. The mass extended into the spinal canal and around the right L4 to S1 nerves (Fig. 2).Fig. 2PET-CT image at the lower lumbar level (A) and upper sacral level (B) showing increased 18F-FDG uptake within the spinal canal, around the right L5 nerve root, around the right paravertebral muscle, as well as the right psoas and erector spinae muscles, corresponding to the location of the tumoural mass.Fig 2: PET-CT image at the lower lumbar level (A) and upper sacral level (B) showing increased 18F-FDG uptake within the spinal canal, around the right L5 nerve root, around the right paravertebral muscle, as well as the right psoas and erector spinae muscles, corresponding to the location of the tumoural mass. The following a day, a second lumbar MRI (the patient’s first at our hospital) was performed to re-evaluate the extent of the mass around the nerve roots. This MRI showed an epidural mass within the spinal canal that was hyperintense in T2-weighted imaging (T2WI), isointense in T1-weighted imaging (T1WI) but greatly enhancing after contrast media administration, corresponding to a myeloid sarcoma (Fig. 3). This was accompanied by the complete replacement of the bone marrow signal of L5 by the tumor (Fig. 2). The mass within the spinal canal was compressing the nerves and infiltrating around exiting nerve roots on the right side (Fig. 4).Fig. 3Sagittal T2-weighted image (A) showing a hyperintense L5 vertebra (star) corresponding to leukaemic tumoural infiltration of the bone and a heterogenously hyperintense epidural mass within the spinal canal corresponding to the tumour (arrow). Sagittal T1-weighted image (B) showing a hypointense L5 vertebra (star) when compared to the adjacent muscle, corresponding to tumoural infiltration of the bone. There is a hypointense epidural mass within the spinal canal, extending from L4 to S1 and into the right-sided L5-S1 foramen, corresponding to the tumour (arrow). Axial T1-weighted fat-saturated image acquired after gadolinium contrast administration showing an intensely enhancing mass within the spinal canal, corresponding to the myeloid sarcoma.Fig 3:Fig. 4Axial T2-weighed images showing the progressive mass effect of the tumour within the spinal canal at the L4 (A), L5 (B) and S1 (C) levels, causing compression of the nerve roots.Fig 4: Sagittal T2-weighted image (A) showing a hyperintense L5 vertebra (star) corresponding to leukaemic tumoural infiltration of the bone and a heterogenously hyperintense epidural mass within the spinal canal corresponding to the tumour (arrow). Sagittal T1-weighted image (B) showing a hypointense L5 vertebra (star) when compared to the adjacent muscle, corresponding to tumoural infiltration of the bone. There is a hypointense epidural mass within the spinal canal, extending from L4 to S1 and into the right-sided L5-S1 foramen, corresponding to the tumour (arrow). Axial T1-weighted fat-saturated image acquired after gadolinium contrast administration showing an intensely enhancing mass within the spinal canal, corresponding to the myeloid sarcoma. Axial T2-weighed images showing the progressive mass effect of the tumour within the spinal canal at the L4 (A), L5 (B) and S1 (C) levels, causing compression of the nerve roots. At one month after the patient first presented to our hospital, the patient was still undergoing chemotherapy. A follow-up PET-CT and MRI were performed at this time, as the patient has been given sufficient time to recover from the induction chemotherapy.The PET-CT showed marked regression of the hypermetabolism of the myeloid sarcoma (Fig. 5A) and the MRI showed a partial regression of the tumour, with significantly less compression of the dural sac (Fig. 6A).Fig. 5PET-CT image at S1 showing increased 18F-FDG uptake around the right paravertebral muscle and intervertebral foramen (A, arrow) corresponding to the location of the tumoural mass at one month after the initiation of treatment (A) and subsequent complete metabolic regression on the imagery performed two months after the initiation of treatment (B).Fig 5:Fig. 6Axial T2 Dixon (water)-weighted image at the L5-S1 level showing the residual thickening around the right nerve root (solid arrow) during the 3rd MRI one month after the start of treatment with persistent intrathecal disease (dotted arrow) (A), the 4th MRI six weeks after the start of treatment (B) and the 5th MRI two months and a half after the start of treatment (C).Fig 6: PET-CT image at S1 showing increased 18F-FDG uptake around the right paravertebral muscle and intervertebral foramen (A, arrow) corresponding to the location of the tumoural mass at one month after the initiation of treatment (A) and subsequent complete metabolic regression on the imagery performed two months after the initiation of treatment (B). Axial T2 Dixon (water)-weighted image at the L5-S1 level showing the residual thickening around the right nerve root (solid arrow) during the 3rd MRI one month after the start of treatment with persistent intrathecal disease (dotted arrow) (A), the 4th MRI six weeks after the start of treatment (B) and the 5th MRI two months and a half after the start of treatment (C). Two weeks later (one month and two weeks after initial presentation at our hospital), the patient began the second induction chemotherapy. This was coupled with an intrathecal triple chemotherapy injection of cortisone, cytarabine and methotrexate on day 1, 4, 7 and 11. The spinal tap did not reveal any leukemic cells within the cerebrospinal fluid, neither in the microscopic evaluation nor by flow cytometry. The patient then underwent a third MRI at two months after initial presentation at our hospital, revealing that the disease had stabilized but that the infiltration around the L5 nerve root persisted (Fig. 6B). After day 11 of the second chemotherapy, intrathecal therapy was withheld due to severe thrombocytopenia following systemic chemotherapy. The patient also had a concomitant episode of agranulocytosis with subsequent uncomplicated diverticulitis, treated conservatively by piperacillin and tazobactam. A third PET-CT and fourth MRI were performed three weeks later, corresponding to three months after initial presentation at our hospital, after recuperation from agranulocytosis after the second induction therapy. The PET-CT revealed a complete regression of the previous hypermetabolism of the myeloid sarcoma (Fig. 5B). The MRI showed a stable response with some residual thickening around the nerve root and the dural sac (Fig. 6C). The patient continues to receive 24 Gy of radiation therapy divided into 12 fractions of 2 Gy on the residual tumour on the right side of L5. In view of a stem cell transplant a pretreatment lumbar MRI was performed, showing complete regression of the disease (Fig. 7). The patient is currently awaiting an allogenic stem cell transplant.Fig. 7Sagittal T2-weighted image (A) showing a complete regression of the infiltration of L5 (star). Axial T2-weighted (B) and postcontrast T1-weighted fat-saturated sequence (C) image at the level of L5 showing complete regression of the infiltration of the right foramina and nerve roots (arrows).Fig 7: Sagittal T2-weighted image (A) showing a complete regression of the infiltration of L5 (star). Axial T2-weighted (B) and postcontrast T1-weighted fat-saturated sequence (C) image at the level of L5 showing complete regression of the infiltration of the right foramina and nerve roots (arrows).