A 21-year-old lady presented with a two-week history of worsening headaches, nausea, neck stiffness, tinnitus, and double vision. There was no fever or seizures, radicular back pain, limb weakness, sensory abnormalities, bladder, or bowel dysfunction. Neurological examination revealed bilateral abducens nerve palsies, intact limb neurology, and bilateral papilledema. A non-contrast brain CT scan was suggestive of intracranial hypertension with findings of supratentorial effacement, mild widening of the optic nerve sheaths, flattened pituitary gland, and small transverse sinuses, while the CT venogram showed no abnormalities (Figure 1). Lumbar puncture revealed CSF opening pressure was 30.5 cmH2O. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed superficial siderosis in the posterior fossa, as well as in the interhemispheric and Sylvian fissures, likely indicating repeated subarachnoid hemorrhages (Figure 2). MRI, magnetic resonance imaging A spinal MRI scan showed an intensely enhancing intradural extramedullary lesion extending from the L1 to L2 intervertebral disc levels. It originated from the filum terminale and completely occupied the spinal canal, displacing the cauda equina nerve roots. It showed low signal intensity on T1-weighted images (T1WI) and heterogeneous, predominantly high signal intensity on T2-weighted and STIR images, with central areas of low intensity suggestive of internal cysts containing proteinaceous material. A fluid-fluid level was seen in the distal thecal sac, with the dependent fluid showing a signal intensity pattern consistent with chronic blood degradation products (Figure 3). MRI, magnetic resonance imaging Management The findings from the image was suggestive of MPE arising from the filium terminale. A decision was made to surgically excise the lesion. The patient underwent an L1-L3 laminectomy and removal of the lumbar intradural extramedullary tumor under intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring, with postoperative resolution of symptoms. Histopathology A fresh specimen was sent to pathology for tissue diagnosis, which revealed MPE, CNS Grade 2 (Figures 4, 5). Post-discharge Postoperative lumbar spine MRI at three months shows post-surgical changes with no residual tumor (Figure 6). The patient returned to work and is being followed up with MRI every six months. MRI, magnetic resonance imaging