A 63-year-old male underwent ULBD for L4–5 lumbar stenosis and showed notable symptom improvement, which enabled his discharge without complications. However, on postoperative day 5, he developed low back pain and right-sided radiating leg pain. At the 3-month follow-up, these symptoms persisted, prompting an MRI, which revealed a right-sided facet cyst formation. Conservative management, including analgesics, was initiated. By the 4-month follow-up, the patient reported significant symptom improvement. A 63-year-old male with a 1-year history of left-sided radiculopathy presented with bilateral neurogenic claudication and localized pain in the upper buttocks, radiating to the posterolateral thighs. His symptoms significantly limited his walking tolerance to 20 min. Prior conservative treatments, including lumbar epidural steroid injections, facet joint ablations, oral NSAIDs, and physical therapy, provided only temporary relief. On physical examination, the patient exhibited full motor strength (Grade 5 in all muscle groups), normal muscle tone, and preserved deep tendon reflexes. Sensory function was intact bilaterally, and the straight leg raise test was negative. Plain and dynamic radiographs showed no evidence of instability or other significant abnormalities. However, MRI revealed a left-sided paracentral disc herniation at L4–5 with associated lateral recess and foraminal stenosis (Fig. 1). Preoperative lumbar MRI. T2-sequenced sagittal and axial sections through L4–L5 of preoperative MRI demonstrating a left-sided paracentral disc herniation at L4–5 with associated lateral recess and foraminal stenosis. The patient underwent endoscopic unilateral laminotomy for bilateral decompression (ULBD) at L4–5 with minimal facet joint disruption. Our standard surgical approach involves removing the LF up to the tip of the superior articular process, ensuring adequate decompression of both traversing nerve roots. The procedure was uneventful, with no intraoperative complications, including nerve root injury. Postoperatively, the patient’s symptoms initially resolved. However, on postoperative day 5, the patient developed new-onset contralateral radiculopathy. As symptoms persisted, a follow-up MRI at 3 months postoperatively revealed a synovial cyst at the right L4/5 facet joint (Fig. 2). After discussing treatment options with the patient, pain management with NSAIDs and gabapentin was initiated. By the 6-month follow-up, the patient reported significant symptom improvement. As the symptoms had resolved, no further imaging studies, such as MRI, were performed. Three-month postoperative lumbar MRI showing right-sided facet cyst formation at L4–5.