A 53-year-old male with thoracolumbar ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF) at the T1/2 and L2/3/4 levels underwent T1 laminectomy and L2–4 laminoplasty. Intraoperatively, a dural tear occurred at the lumbar level and was primarily repaired. One year later, the patient developed acute lower back pain, left lower limb pain, and progressive weakness while performing household cleaning in a forward-flexed posture. Pre-operative imaging suggested L3/4 disc herniation and residual OLF at the same level, and surgical treatment (microscopic discectomy and laminoplasty) was planned. After drilling the left facet joint for discectomy, a sac-like structure, which was continuous with the dura mater, migrated posteriorly. This structure was diagnosed as a pseudomeningocele, rather than a disc herniation. No cerebrospinal fluid leakage or dural injury was observed. Adequate decompression was performed without manipulating the pseudomeningocele. The patient’s symptoms resolved postoperatively with no recurrence at the 6-month follow-up. A 53-year-old male diagnosed with thoracolumbar ossification of the ligamentum flavum (OLF) at T1/2 and L2/3/4 underwent T1 laminectomy and L2–4 laminoplasty (Fig. 1). During lumbar surgery, an iatrogenic dural injury occurred at the lumbar level and was repaired. The patient’s post-operative recovery was uneventful, and all pre-operative symptoms resolved. Computed tomography images before the initial surgery. (A) Sagittal view (B) Axial view at the L3–4 level. At post-operative 1 year, the patient experienced a sudden onset of acute lower back pain, left lower limb pain, and progressive weakness while performing household cleaning in a forward-flexed posture. The symptoms gradually worsened, leading to repeated falls and gait difficulty, and the patient was referred to a local orthopedic surgeon for further evaluation. Neurological examination revealed mild weakness in the left quadriceps (manual muscle testing score 4/5), decreased left patellar reflex, bilateral Achilles hyperreflexia, diminished pain and temperature sensation in the left thigh and distal leg, and numbness around the lateral thigh and knee. The straight leg raise test result was positive on the left side (Fig. 2). The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) before surgery demonstrated low back pain of 45/100 and leg pain of 75/100. Computed tomography revealed residual OLF at L3/4. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed adequate decompression at L2/3 but canal narrowing at L3/4 due to disc bulging. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with left L3/4 disc herniation with insufficient decompression owing to residual OLF, and microscopic discectomy with extended laminoplasty was planned (Fig. 3). Physical examination findings on presentation to our institution. Pre-operative imaging before the revision surgery. (A) Sagittal MRI view. (B) Axial MRI view at the L3–4 level. (C) Sagittal CT view. (D) Axial CT view at the L3–4 level. CT: Computed tomography, MRI: Magnetic resonance imaging. Re-exploration of the prior surgical site allowed removal of the residual OLF at L3/4. During drilling of the left facet joint to access the presumed disc herniation, a sac-like structure that was continuous with the dura mater shifted posteriorly. Accordingly, the patient was diagnosed with a pseudomeningocele and not a disc herniation as initially suspected. No active CSF leakage or new dural tears were observed. Motor-evoked potentials remained stable throughout surgery. Decompression was completed without manipulating the pseudomeningocele, which was left intact (Fig. 4). Intraoperative findings during revision surgery. (A) Exposure of the surgical field. (B and C) Residual ossified ligamentum flavum. (D) Removal of the residual ossified ligamentum flavum using an air drill. (E) Retraction of the dura to approach the intervertebral disc. (F) Pseudomeningocele identified intraoperatively (dotted area). The patient’s back and leg pain resolved immediately after surgery, with both VAS scores improving to 0/100. In addition, the gait was normalized, and no recurrence of neurological symptoms was observed at the 6-month follow-up.