A 23-year-old woman was referred to the neurology department with progressive weakness affecting all 4 limbs. Initially, she experienced gradual onset of weakness and cramps localized to the right upper and lower extremities, which had been progressing over the past 6 months. This was associated with neck pain radiating to the lower back and right groin. The pain was exacerbated by physical activity and relieved by rest. One month prior to presentation, the weakness had worsened and began to involve the left side as well, with greater weakness noted in the left leg compared to the left arm. There was no history of trauma, fever, speech disturbances, headache, altered mental status, or systemic illnesses such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension. The patient also denied any history of chronic cough, prior tuberculosis treatment, or urinary and bowel complaints. There was no known family history of vascular or neurological disorders. Vital signs were within normal limits. Neurological examination revealed asymmetrical quadriparesis with Medical Research Council (MRC) grade 4 strength in the right leg, and grade 5- in the right arm, left leg, and left arm. Increased muscle tone was noted in all 4 limbs. Pathological reflexes including bilateral Hoffmann’s, Babinski’s, and Chaddock’s signs were present. Deep tendon reflexes, particularly the Achilles reflexes, were brisk bilaterally, and ankle clonus was elicited on both sides. Sensory examination demonstrated hypesthesia in a stocking-glove distribution extending up to the C2 dermatome. Routine laboratory investigations were unremarkable, showing no evidence of infection, inflammation, or metabolic derangement. Chest radiography was normal. However, spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed serpiginous flow voids extending from the C2 to L2 vertebral levels, consistent with a tangle of abnormal perimedullary vessels suggestive of a spinal arteriovenous fistula (Fig. 1). Under local anesthesia, vascular access was obtained via puncture of the right common femoral artery, followed by diagnostic spinal angiography. Angiogram showed a fistula connection between the anterior radiculomedullary artery, originating from the left tenth thoracic segmental artery (T10) and the anterior spinal artery (ASA), with drainage into the dilated perimedullary vein, confirming a type IVa perimedullary arteriovenous fistula (PMAVF) (Fig. 2).Fig. 1Pretreatment magnetic resonance (MR) images. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the thoraco-lumbar spine showing vermiform vascular shadows extending from the thoracic to lumbar segments and spinal cord edema; (B) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the cervico-thoracal segment showing perimedullary flow void (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image showing dilatation of perimedullary vein in thoracal level.Fig 1Fig. 2Digital subtraction angiography of the spine. (A) An anteroposterior (AP) angiogram of the left T10 segment shows a fistula fed from left great anterior radicullomedullary artery of Adamkiewicz to the anterior spinal artery (ASA). (B) Venous phase showing dilated perimedullary venous drainage in thoraco-lumbar level (AP view). (C) Venous phase in cervico-thoracal level (lateral view).Fig 2 Pretreatment magnetic resonance (MR) images. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the thoraco-lumbar spine showing vermiform vascular shadows extending from the thoracic to lumbar segments and spinal cord edema; (B) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the cervico-thoracal segment showing perimedullary flow void (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image showing dilatation of perimedullary vein in thoracal level. Digital subtraction angiography of the spine. (A) An anteroposterior (AP) angiogram of the left T10 segment shows a fistula fed from left great anterior radicullomedullary artery of Adamkiewicz to the anterior spinal artery (ASA). (B) Venous phase showing dilated perimedullary venous drainage in thoraco-lumbar level (AP view). (C) Venous phase in cervico-thoracal level (lateral view). Subsequent super-selective spinal angiography under general anesthesia was performed using a microcatheter, providing clearer delineation of the fistula (Fig. 3). We evaluated the case and determined that embolization with ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymer (EVOH) (Onyx18, Medtronic Inc.) was the most appropriate treatment. A Marathon microcatheter (Medtronic Inc.) was advanced over a Mirage microwire (Medtronic Inc.) to a position just proximal to the fistula. Onyx18 and DMSO were prepared in 1 mL syringes, and the dead space of the microcatheter was filled with DMSO before Onyx18 was slowly injected by hand over 90 seconds to displace the DMSO. Under continuous fluoroscopic guidance, Onyx18 was injected into the fistula using the "thumb-tapping" technique. When the embolic agent progressed antegrade, the injection can be continued until complete obliteration of the lesion is achieved. Some reflux occurred, leading to the formation of a “plug,” which subsequently facilitated antegrade flow of the embolic agent. Complete obliteration of the fistula was confirmed angiographically, and the radiopaque cast of Onyx18 was visualized (Fig. 4).Fig. 3Selective spinal angiography using microcatheter. (A) The fistula during arterial phase. (B) The draining vein.Fig 3Fig. 4Post embolization angiography. (A) The arteriovenous fistula was completely occluded after embolization using Onyx18. (B) Dense Onyx18 cast ensures complete fistula occlusion.Fig 4 Selective spinal angiography using microcatheter. (A) The fistula during arterial phase. (B) The draining vein. Post embolization angiography. (A) The arteriovenous fistula was completely occluded after embolization using Onyx18. (B) Dense Onyx18 cast ensures complete fistula occlusion. Postprocedural follow-up on day 3 showed notable improvement in motor strength. By day 7, the patient was able to ambulate independently, although mild residual weakness persisted in the right leg. She was subsequently referred for medical rehabilitation. One month postembolization, follow-up MRI demonstrated marked reduction in perimedullary vein dilatation and resolution of spinal cord edema (Fig. 5).Fig. 5Postembolization MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the thoraco-lumbar spine showing a decrease in spinal cord edema, minimal dilated vascular flow voids around the spinal cord (white arrow), and Onyx cast (red arrow). (B) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the cervico-thoracic segment showing decreased perimedullary flow void compared to before. (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image showing minimal dilatation of perimedullary vein in thoracal level.Fig 5 Postembolization MRI. (A) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the thoraco-lumbar spine showing a decrease in spinal cord edema, minimal dilated vascular flow voids around the spinal cord (white arrow), and Onyx cast (red arrow). (B) Sagittal T2-weighted MR image of the cervico-thoracic segment showing decreased perimedullary flow void compared to before. (C) Axial T2-weighted MR image showing minimal dilatation of perimedullary vein in thoracal level.