The patient was a 41-year-old man who presented with radiating pain and sensory abnormality in the right lower limb for over 1 month, with a progressive aggravation of symptoms [visual analog scale (VAS) score = 7]. The patient denied any history of previous lumbar trauma or surgery. A neurological examination showed a positive right Lasegue's test (45°). A lumbar spine dynamic x-ray showed a normal image with no signs of lumbar instability, deformity, or loss of intervertebral height (Figure 1A). Lumbar spine computed tomography suggested a right-sided herniation of the L5/S1 intervertebral disc with an obvious compression of the S1 nerve root (Figure 1B). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) suggested that the right posterior margin of the L5/S1 intervertebral disc had low-density shadows in the T1 sequence and high-density shadows in the T2 sequence, and fluid cystic lesions were present, with a compression of the adjacent dural sac and the right S1 nerve root (Figure 1C). The patient underwent endoscopic cystectomy with an intraoperative release of bloody, yellowish fluid and complete removal of the cystic tissue (Figures 2A–C). The patient experienced immediate postoperative symptomatic relief (VAS score = 1), and a postoperative MRI showed complete disappearance of the cyst (Figure 1D). A pathological biopsy showed fibrous and vascular tissue in the cyst wall, fibrous tissue hyperplasia with hyaline lesions, and focal old hemorrhage (Supplementary Figure S1). At 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-ups, the patient reported that the original symptoms and signs completely disappeared (VAS score = 0). (A) Preoperative digital radiography (DR) showing normal intervertebral height and vertebral stability. (B) Preoperative CT showing a herniated disc on the right side of L5/S1 with the corresponding nerve root compression (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the herniated disc and the green arrow indicates the location of the compressed nerve root emanation). (C) Preoperative MRI showing a dense T1/T2 image with the corresponding nerve root compression (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the herniated disc and the green arrow indicates the location of the compressed nerve root emanation). (D) Postoperative MRI suggesting disappearance of the cyst and nerve root relaxation (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the original cyst and the green arrow shows nerve root relaxation). Case 1: (A) Endoscopic view of the cyst compressing the S1 nerve root (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the cyst and the green arrow indicates the compressed nerve root). (B) A breach in the fibrous ring connecting to the cyst is seen after cyst resection (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the original cyst). (C) The nerve is completely released after removal of the cyst and the protruding nucleus pulposus (the yellow arrow indicates the original location of the cyst and the green arrow shows nerve root relaxation). Case 2: (D) Endoscopic view of the cyst compressing the S1 nerve root (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the cyst and the green arrow indicates the compressed nerve root). (E) A breach in the fibrous ring connecting to the cyst is seen after cyst removal (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the original cyst). (F) The nerve is completely relieved after removal of the cyst and the protruding nucleus pulposus (the yellow arrow indicates the original location of the cyst and the green arrow shows nerve root relaxation). This patient was a 68-year-old man with numbness and pain in the right lower limb for 1 year, aggravated for 20 days (VAS score = 6). The patient denied any history of previous lumbar trauma or surgery. A neurological examination revealed a positive right Lasegue's test (60°). A lumbar spine dynamic x-ray suggested reduced intervertebral height at L5/S1 and acceptable lumbar spine stability (Figure 3A). CT suggested disc herniation and a low-density air bubble shadow in the right lower part of the L5/S1 disc, an obvious compression of the S1 nerve root, a disc vacuum phenomenon, and an obvious reduction of intervertebral height (Figure 3B). MRI suggested hypodense T1 and T2 sequential shadows on the right side of the L5/S1 disc (Figure 3C), and a gas-filled cyst was present. The patient was treated with endoscopic cystectomy, during which a large number of air bubbles and a small amount of bloody, yellowish fluid were released and the cystic tissue was removed by preserving its intactness (Figures 2D,E). The patient's symptoms resolved immediately after surgery (VAS score = 2), and a postoperative CT suggested complete disappearance of the cyst (Figure 3D). At 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-ups, the patient's original symptoms and signs completely disappeared (VAS score = 0). (A) Preoperative DR shows that the height of the L5/S1 intervertebral space is reduced and the vertebral body is still stable. (B) Preoperative CT shows an L5/S1 disc vacuum sign, right disc herniation with vacuoles (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the herniated disc), and a compression of the corresponding nerve root (the green arrow indicates the location of the compressed nerve root emanation). (C) Preoperative MRI shows a T1/T2 low hyperdensity shadow (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the herniated disc) and the corresponding compressed nerve root (the green arrow indicates the location of the compressed nerve root emanation). (D) Postoperative CT suggesting disappearance of the cyst (the yellow arrow suggests the location of the original cyst) and relaxation of the nerve root (the green arrow shows nerve root relaxation). This patient was a 74-year-old man, with low back pain for 4 years, aggravated with numbness and pain in the right lower limb for 6 months, worsened by position-related symptoms, and neurogenic intermittent claudication. The symptoms include increased pain, numbness, or weakness in the lower limbs, which can hinder ambulation and can be mitigated by rest for about 200 m (VAS score = 7). The patient denied any history of previous lumbar trauma or surgery. A neurological examination showed a positive right Lasegue's test (60°). A lumbar spine dynamic x-ray suggested a significant decrease in the intervertebral height of L4/5 and L5/S1, lumbar instability, and a posterior I° slip of the L5 vertebral body (Figure 4A). CT suggested a right-sided hypodense air bubble shadow of the L5/S1 disc, L5 nerve root compression, and L4/5 and L5/S1 disc vacuum signs (Figure 4B). MRI suggested hypodense T1 and T2 sequential shadows on the right side of the L5/S1 disc (Figure 4C). The patient was treated with L4/5 and L5/S1 interbody fusion, during which the degenerative disc and cyst tissue were completely removed. The patient's symptoms were relieved immediately after surgery (VAS score = 2), and a repeat CT suggested that the cyst had disappeared, and the intervertebral height and vertebral stability were restored (Figure 4D). At the 1-month follow-up, the patient's original symptoms and signs relieved (VAS score = 1). At the 3- and 6-month follow-ups, the patient's lower limb symptoms were completely relieved (VAS score = 0). Table 1 provides the basic characteristics of the patient cases. (A) Preoperative DR shows a reduction of the intervertebral heights of L4/5 and L5/S1 and I° slip of the L5/S1 vertebral body (yellow arrow). (B) Preoperative CT suggests that the L5/S1 disc is vacuumed, and the right disc is herniated with a vacuole (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the herniated disc) and the corresponding nerve root is compressed (the green arrow indicates the location of the compressed nerve root emanation). (C) Preoperative MRI shows T1/T2 hypodensities (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the herniated disc), with the corresponding nerve root compression (the green arrow indicates the location of the compressed nerve root emanation). (D) Postoperative CT shows the disappearance of the cyst (the yellow arrow indicates the location of the original cyst), with nerve root relaxation (the green arrow shows nerve root relaxation). Basic characteristics of the patients in our series.