A 6-week-old intact male Labrador Retriever was presented to the referral clinic with the clinical complaint of an abnormal gait of the hind limbs in combination with fecal and urinary incontinence. The puppy was smaller than its littermates. Clinical signs had been present for at least the last 2–4 weeks. No other litter mates showed clinical signs, although one died on the first night after birth due to an unknown cause, and one was stillborn. A healthy female littermate was also brought to the clinic for comparison. Videos of the dog at 1, 3, 4, and 13 weeks old are attached as Supplementary Videos S1–S4. At initial presentation, the general examination showed that the puppy was smaller than his female littermate but was otherwise unremarkable. On neurological examination, a slight spinal kyphosis in the lumbar region was noted. Ambulatory spastic paraparesis and proprioceptive pelvic limb ataxia were suspected, although a complete evaluation was hampered due to the patient’s age. Only slight spinal reflexes could be induced in both this puppy and its littermate. Perineal and anal reflexes were present. Urinary and fecal incontinence were suspected due to continued urinary dribbling and loss of fecal droplets. Orthopedic examination did not reveal any additional abnormalities. Because the owners had noticed some improvement prior to this first visit, a conservative approach was instituted, and a re-check appointment was scheduled 2 weeks later. At the re-check appointment, at 8 weeks of age, the patient was clearly fecal- and urinary-incontinent, with obvious involuntary loss of urine and fecal material while walking, and showed persistent and more obvious paraparesis and hind limb ataxia. At a faster pace, the patient began bunny hopping. There was kyphosis visible at the level of the lumbar spinal column; palpation and passive movements did not show any abnormalities or pain. Postural reaction testing demonstrated delayed responses in the right hind limb. All spinal reflexes and muscle tone were normal, although there was suspicion of a mild hyperreflexia response due to some clonus in the right hind limb after percussion of the right patellar reflex. The remaining neurological examination was within normal limits. Based on the neurological examination, neuroanatomic localization was expected within the thoracolumbar (T3–L3) and lumbosacral spine (L4–S3), and the patient was scheduled for blood analysis and diagnostic imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). At 10 weeks of age, the patient returned for further workup, and no additional clinical signs had emerged. Serology for Neospora caninum (FASTest Neospora caninum rapid immunochromatographic test with additional MegaFLUO® Neospora caninum for the indirect semiquantitative immunofluorescence detection of specific IgG antibodies in case of a positive FASTest) and Toxoplasma gondii (MAST®ID Rapid Latex Agglutination Test) were negative. Biochemistry showed no abnormalities in potassium, sodium, glucose, creatine kinase, ammonia, creatinine, total protein, and albumin (20). Additional thyroxine (T4; 54 nmol/L, reference 19–46 nmol/L) showed a mild increase, but thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH; 0.05 μg/L, reference <0.6 μg/L) was unremarkable. Hematology showed a slight decrease in hematocrit (0.31 L/L, reference 0.42–0.61 L/L), consistent with the patient’s age, and was otherwise unremarkable. The father of the patient had been screened prior to breeding for several congenital neuromuscular diseases and was found to be negative for conditions including myotubular myopathy, exercise-induced collapse (EIC), centromuscular myopathy (CNM), and degenerative myopathy (DM). Because no myopathy was expected, no additional testing was performed. Radiographic projections of the pelvis at 11 weeks of age, including a ventrodorsal view with extended legs, flexed legs (“frog position”), and a distraction view, obtained using the Vezzoni-Modified Badertscher Hip Distension Device, revealed no convincing signs of coxofemoral dysplasia or other abnormalities of the pelvis. No radiographic projections of the vertebral column were acquired. Subsequently, MRI of the brain and entire vertebral column was performed on a 1.5-Tesla scanner (Philips Ingenia 1.5 T MRI, Eindhoven, The Netherlands). There were 7 cervical, 13 thoracic, 7 lumbar, and 3 (not yet fused) sacral vertebrae. The neurocranium was unremarkable. The diameter of the spinal cord was reduced from the T1–T2 intervertebral disc space to the L2–L3 intervertebral space (Figures 1A,B,D). The spinal cord at this level was ventrally positioned within the spinal canal. The subarachnoid cavity, especially dorsally to the spinal cord, showed an increase in volume, occupying the remaining spinal canal. The spinal cord: dorsal subarachnoid space ratio was approximately 50%. The spinal cord was diamond-shaped due to the indentations on the dorsolateral aspects. Multifocal ill-defined T2W hyperintensities were noted within the parenchyma of the thoracolumbar spinal cord. Caudal to L3, the lumbar intumescence had the expected increase in diameter (Figure 1D). From cranial to T2, the spinal cord regained its normal diameter. There was no dilatation of the central canal (Figures 1B–D). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spinal cord. (A) Midsagittal T2-weighted image of the entire spinal cord demonstrates the thinned spinal cord (arrowheads), approximately from T2 to L2. The arrow depicts lumbosacral stenosis. (B–D) Transverse T2-weighted image of the spine, (B) at the level of T1–T2 illustrating the presumably normal spinal cord, (C) illustrating the segmentally thin spinal cord at the level of L2, and (D) presumably the normal spinal cord caudal to the abnormal segment at the level of L4. The lumbosacral intervertebral disc was teardrop-shaped and T2W hyperintense. The annulus fibrosus mildly protruded dorsally toward the vertebral canal with partial attenuation of the ventral epidural fat. A subtle step formation of the sacrum and enlargement of the ligamentum flavum/articular processes caused effacement of the epidural fat dorsolaterally to the cauda equina. This resulted in moderate obliteration of epidural fat surrounding the nerve roots of the cauda equina, as seen on the transverse T2W images. The fat signal remained visible between the various nerve tissues. The imaging findings were suggestive of a congenital thoracolumbar myelopathy, although normal variation for the patient’s young age could not be excluded. The findings of the lumbosacral junction were concerning for lumbosacral stenosis, although these changes could be aggravated by positioning. Mild ascites, likely age-related, and moderate oesophageal fluid distension, likely secondary to anesthesia, were noted as well, although functional esophageal abnormalities could not be excluded. Due to the MRI results, the lack of any clinical improvement, continued severe fecal and urinary incontinence, and the expected poor quality of life, the owners elected euthanasia at 13 weeks of age, and the patient was submitted for postmortem examination. At necropsy, the body condition was appropriate for the dog’s age, with moderate musculature and scant fat reserves. The vertebral column showed a moderate dorsal curvature of the cranial lumbar region (kyphosis) and a slight lateral deviation of the thoraco-lumbar spine (mild scoliosis). The spinal cord was covered by uniform, white, and shiny dura mater without macroscopic signs of inflammation, hemorrhage, neoplastic masses, or attachment to the vertebrae, and a clear presence of central canal stenosis was not noted during necropsy. After a week of fixation in buffered formalin, the dura mater was cut along the dorsal aspect of the whole spinal cord, showing a moderately to markedly irregularly thinned parenchyma in the thoracic and lumbar regions, surrounded by a small amount of transparent, clear, and watery cerebrospinal fluid (Figure 2). The dorsal aspect of the cord in these areas was irregular and presented multifocal and longitudinal indentations that reached the cranial levels of the lumbosacral intumescence. On transverse cuts at different thoracolumbar levels, the parenchyma often appeared irregular and mottled, with irregular indentations on the cut surface mainly, but not restricted to the dorsal areas of the parenchyma, measuring up to 1 mm in diameter and frequently coalescing. Several peripheral nerves were examined and collected (brachial plexi, sciatic nerves, and phrenicoabdominal nerve), as well as the celiac ganglia, none of which showed remarkable macroscopic changes. Gross pathology. (A) Thoracolumbar spinal cord. Moderately thin spinal cord showing multifocal irregular indentations alongside the dorsolateral aspects. The caudal thoracic cord presents a prominent dorsal projection (arrow) limited by a bilateral longitudinal indentation, and the adjacent parenchyma appears markedly thinned (arrowhead). (B) Cranial lumbar spinal cord. Irregular dorsal surface with a focal area of markedly thinned dorsolateral parenchyma (arrow), without the presence of a central dorsal projection as seen at thoracic levels. Note the irregularly oriented and distended subdural vasculature surrounding the areas of markedly indented parenchyma, suggesting abnormal vasculature anatomy and supporting the diagnosis of a congenital malformation. Incidental changes in non-nervous tissue were likely consequences of euthanasia and consisted of pulmonary edema and congestion, minimal hydropericardium, and hepatic congestion. The other organs did not show macroscopic abnormalities. Histological examination with the hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stain was performed on two transverse cuts of cervical and lumbar spinal cord, thoracic intumescence, and lumbar intumescence; three transverse cuts of thoracic cord; one transverse cut of right and left celiac ganglia; and one longitudinal cut of phrenicoabdominal nerve. Coinciding with the areas previously described, the thoracolumbar spinal cord and the cranial areas of the lumbar intumescence showed remarkable histological changes (Figure 3). These segments were markedly thinned to almost half the diameter of the cervical spinal cord. Bilaterally and symmetrically, the dorsolateral white matter and sometimes the dorsal grey matter (only in lumbar regions) are markedly decreased in size, often with a central dorsal papillary projection of white matter limited by two dorsolateral, variably deep indentations reaching up to the grey matter. Laterally to these clefts, there was a remarkable decreased amount of white matter, and these areas often showed a moderate to marked spongy appearance, sometimes also extending into the lumbar dorsal grey matter (consistent with intravital edema). In caudal lumbar areas, the dorsal and dorsolateral white matter was almost completely absent, with marked edematous changes that extended deeper into the grey matter, which also showed decreased numbers of neurons in comparison with the ventral areas and other dorsal areas at more cranial levels. Throughout the whole length of the spinal cord, no morphological changes affecting the central canal were noted. No abnormalities were found in the cervical spinal cord, celiac ganglia, or phrenicoabdominal nerve. Histology, hematoxylin and eosin. (A) Lumbar intumescence, dorsal right, ×4 magnification. The dorsal and dorsolateral white matter is moderately thinned, with markedly decreased parenchyma on the dorsolateral aspects above the dorsal grey matter horn (arrow). Scale bar: 200 μm. (B) Lumbar spinal cord, cranial aspects, ×4 magnification. The dorsal white matter presents a prominent papillary zone delimited by two dorsolateral deep clefts (arrows), almost reaching the dorsal horns of the grey matter. Scale bar: 200 μm. (B inset) Higher magnification (×10) on the left cleft in the white matter. Note the extensive vacuolation of the neuropil affecting both white and grey matter, more prominent on the left side of the image. (C) Lumbar spinal cord, caudal aspects, ×4 magnification. Dorsal and dorsolateral markedly thinned white matter, with a focal area of almost absent white matter (arrow). There is prominent vacuolation in the remnants of white matter and diffusely affects the grey matter (inset). The central canal shows no remarkable changes. Scale bar: 200 μm. (C inset) Inset, ×10 magnification. Both macroscopic and histological changes are compatible with thoracolumbar spinal cord hypoplasia, affecting mainly the dorsolateral white and grey matter (see Figure 4). Histology, Luxol Fast Blue. (A) Lumbar spinal cord, caudal aspects, ×4 magnification. The remnants of the thinned dorsal white matter (left) present normal myelinization, with an abrupt change in the staining properties at the dorsolateral aspects (left from arrowhead). The few remnants of white matter in this area showed markedly decreased myelin density, with abundant interspersed clear spaces that extend less prominently toward the more lateral white matter (top right, right from arrowhead). Scale bar: 200 μm. (B) Inset × 20 magnification. A 6-week-old intact male Labrador Retriever was presented to the referral clinic with the clinical complaint of an abnormal gait of the hind limbs in combination with fecal and urinary incontinence. The puppy was smaller than its littermates. Clinical signs had been present for at least the last 2–4 weeks. No other litter mates showed clinical signs, although one died on the first night after birth due to an unknown cause, and one was stillborn. A healthy female littermate was also brought to the clinic for comparison. Videos of the dog at 1, 3, 4, and 13 weeks old are attached as Supplementary Videos S1–S4. At initial presentation, the general examination showed that the puppy was smaller than his female littermate but was otherwise unremarkable. On neurological examination, a slight spinal kyphosis in the lumbar region was noted. Ambulatory spastic paraparesis and proprioceptive pelvic limb ataxia were suspected, although a complete evaluation was hampered due to the patient’s age. Only slight spinal reflexes could be induced in both this puppy and its littermate. Perineal and anal reflexes were present. Urinary and fecal incontinence were suspected due to continued urinary dribbling and loss of fecal droplets. Orthopedic examination did not reveal any additional abnormalities. Because the owners had noticed some improvement prior to this first visit, a conservative approach was instituted, and a re-check appointment was scheduled 2 weeks later. At the re-check appointment, at 8 weeks of age, the patient was clearly fecal- and urinary-incontinent, with obvious involuntary loss of urine and fecal material while walking, and showed persistent and more obvious paraparesis and hind limb ataxia. At a faster pace, the patient began bunny hopping. There was kyphosis visible at the level of the lumbar spinal column; palpation and passive movements did not show any abnormalities or pain. Postural reaction testing demonstrated delayed responses in the right hind limb. All spinal reflexes and muscle tone were normal, although there was suspicion of a mild hyperreflexia response due to some clonus in the right hind limb after percussion of the right patellar reflex. The remaining neurological examination was within normal limits. Based on the neurological examination, neuroanatomic localization was expected within the thoracolumbar (T3–L3) and lumbosacral spine (L4–S3), and the patient was scheduled for blood analysis and diagnostic imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). At 10 weeks of age, the patient returned for further workup, and no additional clinical signs had emerged. Serology for Neospora caninum (FASTest Neospora caninum rapid immunochromatographic test with additional MegaFLUO® Neospora caninum for the indirect semiquantitative immunofluorescence detection of specific IgG antibodies in case of a positive FASTest) and Toxoplasma gondii (MAST®ID Rapid Latex Agglutination Test) were negative. Biochemistry showed no abnormalities in potassium, sodium, glucose, creatine kinase, ammonia, creatinine, total protein, and albumin (20). Additional thyroxine (T4; 54 nmol/L, reference 19–46 nmol/L) showed a mild increase, but thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH; 0.05 μg/L, reference <0.6 μg/L) was unremarkable. Hematology showed a slight decrease in hematocrit (0.31 L/L, reference 0.42–0.61 L/L), consistent with the patient’s age, and was otherwise unremarkable. The father of the patient had been screened prior to breeding for several congenital neuromuscular diseases and was found to be negative for conditions including myotubular myopathy, exercise-induced collapse (EIC), centromuscular myopathy (CNM), and degenerative myopathy (DM). Because no myopathy was expected, no additional testing was performed.