A 15-year-old adolescent boy with a history of factor XI deficiency, asthma, and bicuspid aortic valve presented with upper thoracic congenital kyphoscoliosis with Cobb angle measuring 60°. The deformity resulted in a compensatory sweeping thoracolumbar lordosis from the mid thoracic spine to the sacrum spine, resulting in notable discomfort localized to the thoracolumbar junction and limiting his participation in varsity basketball and football. On physical examination, the patient was well developed and well nourished, with neutral coronal balance, proximal thoracic hyperkyphosis, and thoracolumbar hyperlordosis beginning immediately distal to the congenital kyphoscoliosis. No waist asymmetry, trunk shift, or shoulder imbalance was observed. Standing examination and the Adam Forward Bend test demonstrated left thoracic fullness with a sweeping but stiff thoracolumbar kyphosis and tenderness over the posterior elements of the thoracolumbar spine and elicited discomfort in the mid back region with spinal extension (Figure 1). Conservative care included physical therapy targeting core strengthening, activity modification, and NSAIDs for pain relief. Compliance was high, as evidenced by consistent attendance and engagement in therapy sessions. Preoperative radiographs (Figure 2), CT, and MRI revealed congenital hemivertebrae at T6 and T7 with associated kyphosis but no neural axis abnormality. 3D-printed models were fabricated to assist with preoperative planning (Figure 3). Given the magnitude of the deformity, poor sagittal profile, and potential for progression, the patient and his family opted for surgical intervention. The plan was T2-L2 posterior spinal fusion with posterior column osteotomies. Preoperative images of the patient at the first clinic visit. Preoperative radiograph showing left T6 and right T7 hemivertebrae and associated kyphoscoliosis. 3D reconstruction of the patient's thoracic spine. The surgery was conducted under somatosensory evoked potentials, transcranial motor-evoked potentials, and direct electromyography impedance monitoring. Prophylactic antibiotics and tranexamic acid were administered. The spine was subperiosteally exposed, inferior articular facetectomies were performed, and the bone was kept for autograft. Intraoperative CT-guided navigation was used for spine instrumentation. Pedicle screws were inserted bilaterally from T2-L2. Posterior column osteotomies from T4 to L1 were performed to facilitate correction of the focal kyphoscoliosis with posterior column shortening, as well as facilitate lengthening of the posterior column in the long lordotic segment through posterior column release, using bilateral hypercontoured rod reduction technique. Bilateral hypercontoured 6.0-mm cobalt-chrome rods were placed, and the spine's sagittal alignment was gradually corrected through sequential tightening of reduction towers achieving notable correction of the spinal deformity. The postcorrection intraoperative imaging demonstrated appropriate correction of sagittal profile with restoration of desired thoracic kyphosis and satisfactory implant positioning. Autograft and allograft were used to promote creation of a bony fusion mass. The thoracic kyphosis measured from T2-T12 improved from 53° on preoperative imaging (Figure 2) to 57° on postoperative imaging (Figure 4), however with notable redistribution of kyphosis. Lumbar lordosis measured from L1-S1 improved from 91° on preoperative imaging to 63° on postoperative imaging. Global lordosis (T8-S1) improved from 113° on preoperative imaging to 63° on postoperative imaging. The patient tolerated the surgery well and remained in hospital for 5 days because of planned perioperative hematology management of his factor XI deficiency. Postoperative radiograph demonstrating successful alignment and fixation after T2-L2 posterior spinal fusion at 4 months. Postoperative radiographs redemonstrated improved coronal and sagittal alignment (Figure 4). Activity restrictions were lifted at 3 months postoperatively. At his 6-month follow-up, the patient reported having successfully returned to football, basketball, and track, without residual back pain or limitation. His physical examination revealed level shoulder height, no pelvic obliquity, and a well-healed midline back incision (Figure 5). Postoperative radiographs demonstrated maintained satisfactory spinal alignment, position of implants, and restoration of appropriate sagittal profile with correction of the thoracolumbar lordosis. Postoperative images of the patient at clinic after 6 months.