A 40-year-old male with features suggestive of skeletal dysplasia (i.e., short stature, congenital coxa vara, and multiple cardiac and orthopedic anomalies) presented with worsening low back pain and right L5 radiculopathy. The magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated L5–S1 spondylolisthesis with right foraminal stenosis. The 3D computed tomography confirmed multiple absent or hypoplastic facet joints from T12 to S1. He underwent a L5–S1 laminectomy, discectomy, with a transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF). Postoperatively, back and leg pain symptoms resolved, and there were no instrument-related complications. A 40-year-old male (148 cm) presented with a 1-year history of progressive mechanical low back pain, right L5 radiculopathy, neurogenic claudication, right foot paresthesias, and a 6-month history of using forearm crutches. On examination, he only demonstrated pinprick sensory loss in the right L5-S1 distribution. He presented with multiple underlying features of skeletal dysplasia (i.e., disproportionate short stature; congenital heart disease [coarctation repair and valvotomy]; coxa vara with proximal femoral focal deficiency requiring bilateral hip arthroplasties and revisions; inguinal hernia repairs; and multiple other orthopedic procedures). Flexion-extension radiographs demonstrated >32 mm dynamic L5–S1 translation [Figure 1]. The magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed L5–S1 anterolisthesis with a far lateral right disc herniation and S1 nerve root compression [Figure 2]. The computed tomography confirmed asymmetric L5–S1 facet arthropathy [Figure 3], with the 3D reconstruction revealing multilevel congenital facet hypoplasia/absence of facet joints between T12 and S1 [Figure 4]. Cervical and thoracic MR studies were unremarkable. Pre-operative X-ray to access spondylolisthesis at the L5-S1 level. (a) Extension and (b) flexion images were taken. Anterior spondylolisthesis was demonstrated during spinal flexion (red arrow). A indicates anterior. Preoperative T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging to assess spondylolisthesis at the L5-S1 level. (a) Axial and (b) sagittal view of the lumbar spine at L5-S1 (blue line) showing far lateral right disc herniation and right foraminal stenosis at L5 (red arrow). R indicates right side of patient and A indicates anterior. Sagittal Computed Topography (CT) of the lumbar spine showing multiple hypoplastic and absent facets. Due to a slight dextroscoliosis present in the patient, the facet joints are not captured on the same plane. (a) Right and (b) left facet joints of the upper lumbar spine. (c) Right and (d) left facet joints of the lower lumbar spine. Hypoplastic facet joints (white arrows) and absent facet joints (red arrows) were noted between thoracic spine at level T12 to sacral spine at level S1. P indicates posterior. 3-Dimensional computed topography (3D-CT) reconstruction of the lumbar spine. Depiction of hypoplastic facet joints (white arrows) and absent facet joints (red arrow) from level T12 to S1. L indicates patient’s left side. The patient underwent uneventful L5 and S1 laminectomies with microdiscectomy and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) under 3D-navigation; bilateral L5 and S1 pedicle screws were placed along with a 9 × 23 mm interbody cage. Postoperatively, radicular pain resolved immediately; he ambulated independently by day 5 and he was discharged home. Within 6 weeks, he no longer required crutches to ambulate, and by 6 postoperative months, he regained normal function and stability [Figure 5]. 2-month postoperative X-ray of bilateral pedicle screw fixation and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion at L5-S1. (a) Posterior-anterior view and (b) lateral view of the lumbar spine. Hemilaminectomy L5-S1 on the right with slight dextrocurvature of the lumbar spine. R indicates patient’s right side and P indicates posterior.