A previously healthy, independent, right-handed, 72-year-old South Asian man developed a witnessed generalized tonic–clonic (GTC) convulsion while at home in September 2022. He had been previously diagnosed with transient global amnesia for which he had been on carbamazepine for the past 2 years. However, he was not compliant with medication, as he had never experienced a typical seizure until this event. This seizure occurred during sleep and was not preceded by any trauma. He was brought to the hospital by the family, who lifted him using all four limbs while he was unconscious. An urgent computed tomography (CT) of the brain was performed to investigate the cause of the seizure; however, it was unremarkable, and the cranio-cervical junction was also normal. He developed two more GTC convulsions over the next 24 hours. Seizures were controlled with intravenous levetiracetam. Following recovery from postictal drowsiness, the patient complained of pain and stiffness in his neck. On examination, he was unable to raise his arms above shoulder level. However, he remained ambulatory, had no signs of respiratory or lower limb muscle involvement, and had no sensory deficits in his upper limbs. Reflexes were normal, and there was no cranial nerve involvement. Shoulder joint dislocation was excluded with bilateral shoulder X-rays. The possibility of stroke was clinically excluded as he had symmetrical shoulder involvement with no cranial nerve, brain stem, or lower limb involvement. Myeloradiculopathy was not considered, as the initial CT scan showed a normal cranio-cervical junction. Neck pain and inability to raise upper limbs were attributed to postconvulsive muscle spasm on a background of cervical spondylosis, and he was started on analgesics and physiotherapy. Over the course of a month, the shoulder pain and weakness resolved gradually, although the stiffness persisted. However, as clinical examination showed no signs of cervical root or long tract involvement, and the cranio-cervical junction of the CT brain, performed following the first seizure, was normal, apart from a few age-related degenerative changes, the patient was managed as having cervical spondylosis and radiculopathy. As the neck pain and stiffness persisted even after 1 year, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the cervical spine was performed in August 2023. This revealed a fracture separation of the odontoid peg (type II fracture) associated with contrast-enhancing retrodental soft tissue. The findings were suggestive of a retrodental pseudotumor, likely secondary to an old dens fracture or erosion of the odontoid peg due to an underlying erosive arthropathy, such as rheumatoid arthritis. In light of the imaging and clinical findings, his neurological status was re-evaluated, and his impairment was graded as American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) E spinal cord injury. As there was no history of direct trauma to the neck, investigations were undertaken to rule out pathological fracture. He underwent screening for myeloma, including a blood picture, skeletal survey, serum protein electrophoresis, urine Bence–Jones proteins, and urine light chains, all of which were negative. It was therefore postulated that the fracture may have been caused by the vigorous head movements that occurred during the GTC convulsions. The patient’s management was discussed in a multidisciplinary team consisting of a radiologist, a spinal surgeon, and a rheumatologist. Considering the grade of impairment and anticipated risks associated with surgery, a decision was made to avoid surgical intervention. A conservative approach was adopted, and he was advised to use a soft cervical collar for neck immobilization. Despite conservative management, the patient continued to experience persistent neck stiffness. By July 2024, he developed impaired fine motor function and dexterity in his hands and upper limbs, a slightly unsteady gait and a dry cough on hyperflexion of the neck. Functionally, he could not button his shirt and found it difficult to feed himself with his hand (Medical Research Council’s scale for assessing muscle strength—grade 4 power). He also developed impaired pain and temperature sensation in his hands. This was evident by the development of a suppurative paronychia of the left thumb following blunt trauma, which was detected only by his daughter, as the patient had no awareness of the injury, as he could not feel pain or temperature. Despite this, he retained joint position sense and had no sensory impairment in the trunk. Bladder and bowel function remained intact. His neurological status was reclassified as ASIA D impairment. He was suspected of having cervical myeloradiculopathy at this presentation and therefore underwent nerve conduction studies of both arms, which showed only a mild degree of C6–7 root changes. A repeat MRI of the cervical spine was performed, which revealed narrowing of the upper cervical spinal canal at the cranio-cervical junction due to fracture separation of the odontoid peg and retrolental soft tissue thickening. It also revealed abnormal T2/short tau inversion recovery (STIR) high signal intensities within the cord, likely representing the early stages of compressive myelopathy. His clinical and radiological findings were discussed in a multidisciplinary meeting that consisted of a physician, neurologist, radiologist, and spinal surgeon. Given the radiological evidence of cord compression and the patient’s functional decline, particularly his increasing dependence in activities of daily living and reduced quality of life, a decision was made to proceed with surgical intervention. While the risks of cervical spinal surgery in older adults were acknowledged, the potential benefits of halting neurological deterioration were deemed to outweigh the risks. He underwent an uneventful cranio-cervical fixation in August 2024, during which the C2 vertebra (odontoid process) was stabilized to the base of the skull using screws. Within 2 weeks, he showed remarkable improvement in hand dexterity, regaining independence in daily activities such as buttoning his shirt and feeding himself. His gait also improved noticeably. His neck pain improved significantly, although movements remained restricted owing to the spinal fixation.