A 64-year-old female with a history of a TLIF at L4/5, performed 18 months prior to presentation to the current surgeon, presented with persistent low back pain and radiculopathy. Imaging demonstrated non-union at the TLIF site with ongoing foraminal stenosis and segmental instability (Fig. 1A). Multidisciplinary review determined that a revision fusion was the initial focus as mechanical back pain related to non-union was the primary complaint. Following the planned stage 1 intervention, removal of the migrated TLIF cage was determined necessary as the device was serving no purpose and likely causing further symptoms. Therefore, a two-stage revision strategy was planned. Following standard preoperative preparation, the patient underwent ALIF at L4/5 (Fig. 6). A standard retroperitoneal approach and anterior discectomy were performed [4], with the disc space prepared. Note was made that no graft was within the interbody space, nor any evidence of arthrodesis. A Redmond Ti/PEEK ALIF cage (A-Spine, Taiwan) 14 mm, 12° lordotic cage was inserted with three integral 30 mm screws for segmental fixation (Fig. 1B and C). The ALIF device and interbody space were packed with allograft and autograft material. The construct was confirmed with intraoperative X-ray imaging, and postop CT scan the following day (Fig. 2). Estimated blood loss was minimal (~15 cc), with no intraoperative complications. Day 1 postop ALIF. The PEEK cage can be seen in the canal and paraspinal regions. (A) Axial sequence. (B) Parasagittal sequence. After an adequate interval recovery of 3 days, the patient underwent the second stage of minimally invasive removal of the TLIF cage via an endoscopic approach. The Elliquence Stenosis endoscopic system was used (Elliquence, USA) for TLIF retrieval. Under fluoroscopic guidance, the TLIF cage was identified with a dilator positioned directly superficial to the cage, then a 10 mm working channel positioned to insert the endoscope (Fig. 3). Dissection of the TLIF cage (Fig. 4), mobilization, and retrieval (Fig. 5) was achieved with relative ease (Video 1). Using constant irrigation through the endoscope, this assisted with both hemostasis and hydrodissection of the tissue planes around the cage to aid removal. Hemostasis was achieved, and the wound was closed in standard fashion. (A) AP X-ray. Initial needle localization over the TLIF cage. (B) Lateral X-ray with needle positioned on posterior aspect of TLIF cage. (C) Working channel positioned immediately posterior to cage. (D) RF diathermy to dissect around cage (see Video 1). (E) Dissection around cage using multiple instruments. (F) Post removal of cage, with no TLIF device evident. Endoscopic view of the TLIF cage in scar with dissection around the device prior to removal of the migrated TLIF cage. Immediate post removal with the endoscope, working channel, grasping tool (endoscopic ligament cutter), and TLIF cage removed as one (see Video 1 for maneuver). Lumbar interbody fusion (LIF) techniques (with permission of Mobbs et al., JSS).