A 38-year-old woman presented with persistent low back pain for six years. One year before our assessment, she experienced lumbar trauma. For approximately eight months, she experienced pain and paresthesia resembling an electric shock in the lumbar region and the left lower limb, which caused her left foot to extend onto the ground and led to difficulty walking. On examination, the patient, in the supine position, could not dorsiflex her left foot due to pain in the lower back and left lower limb; she was unable to raise her left leg, and she could only bend her left thigh if she lay on her left side. She experienced hypo-anaesthesia in the posterior part of the left lower limb. Normal conus medullaris and FF were found on lumbar MR (Figure 1). Sagittal T1-weighted image. Fatty filum extending from L3 to L5, with a maximum diameter of 5.5 mm at L3. A month after her presentation, the patient underwent transhiatal transection of the FTE under local anesthesia with conscious sedation. The sectioning and removal of the superficial dorsal sacrococcygeal ligament provided access to the sacral canal, where the FTE was identified, dissected, and cut using an operating microscope. Deeper within, an abnormal and thin membrane was found inside the sacral canal. This membrane was opened, and another FTE was coagulated and cut. The day after the surgery, the patient showed a dramatic improvement. She was able to walk normally, and there were no limitations in the movements of the left lower limb (Video 1). She also experienced no pain in the left lower limb. Her well-being continued for about three months, until, following an abrupt twisting movement of the trunk, lumbago and pain in the left lower limb reappeared, almost as before the surgery. There were no improvements at the follow-up, so a second surgery was performed eight months after the first under general anaesthesia. A partial sacrectomy via S1-S2 laminectomy was carried out, confirming a duplicate FTE and ruling out other anatomical variants that could limit the outcome of the transhiatal approach. The duplicate FTE of equal thickness has been identified up to the inferior part of the dural sac. The duplicate FTE was sectioned (Video 2), and each piece was sent for pathology; no fat tissue was found. The symptoms disappeared immediately after surgery. Section of duplicate filum terminale externum by partial sacrectomy The patient remained asymptomatic for a few months after surgery. Then she began to develop symptoms different from her initial presentation, involving both thighs. These symptoms were mild but increased after lifting a weight. The patient walked normally and no longer limped as she did at the onset. She reported tension and stiffness radiating from the lower back to the thighs. While sitting on the bed, she was unable to lift her thighs. However, she did not experience any limitations or pain in plantar flexion and dorsiflexion movements. In a supine position with her legs straight, she could not raise them. The thighs could be rotated laterally, but the movement was reduced on the left side. Almost two years after the second surgery, the FF section was carried out using a laminectomy approach at L4. There was no duplicate FTI. Immediately in the postoperative assessment, there were no limitations in lower limb movements and no symptoms (Video 3). Postoperative lumbar MRI revealed the cut of the FF (Figure 2). The conus medullaris does not ascend after fatty filum sectioning, but the patient becomes asymptomatic. At the five-year follow-up, the patient only occasionally experienced low back pain and transient episodes of pain in the left lower limb without any restriction of movement.