The classic presentation of SIH is diffuse, occipital, or frontal headaches that are almost always orthostatic. Rarely patients can present without headaches. Other common presenting symptoms are nausea and/or vomiting, neck pain and/or stiffness, hearing disturbances and other ear-related symptoms, and dizziness. More uncommonly, patients present with visual symptoms, movement disorders, and cognitive changes [4]. In many cases of SIH, there is an identifiable cause of CSF leakage, such as a history of lumbar puncture or congenital anomalies like Chiari malformations or lymphatic malformations. However, CSF leaks can also have an unknown cause. In 2017, Schievink proposed four types of CSF leaks associated with spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH): dural tears, meningeal diverticula, direct CSF-venous fistulas, and indeterminate/unknown sources [8]. This classification emphasizes the importance of a detailed medical history in patients with characteristic SIH symptoms [9]. A 9-year-old female with a history of a pituitary cyst and a mild cervical spine (C-spine) injury sustained in a motor vehicle accident 2 years prior, presented with approximately 6 weeks of progressively worsening, bilateral frontal, stabbing headaches. The headaches were positional in nature, markedly improving when lying down, and reached a severity of 10/10 at the time of presentation. She had several episodes of vomiting, phonophobia, a sensation of ear fullness, and subtle cognitive changes (e.g., reported new difficulty with reading). She had no headache symptoms since her C-spine injury, until this presentation, so there was low clinical suspicion that the cause of her headaches was from her previous injury. Her symptoms were unresponsive to over-the-counter medications such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen. The frequency and the intensity of the headaches progressed over time and significantly impaired her daily functioning. She became bedbound, missed weeks of school, and was frequently crying herself to sleep due to the severity of the pain. Her family grew increasingly distressed by the ineffectiveness of prior treatment efforts. The first episode of headaches was 2.5 months prior to presentation at the hospital. She developed malaise and nasal congestion and was prescribed treatment for sinusitis with doxycycline. She subsequently experienced an episode of severe headache. She described the pain as sharp and associated with dizziness and a “floppy” sensation in her legs. She was diagnosed with a post-viral syndrome and her symptoms resolved with days of bedrest. However, she then experienced several additional episodes of headaches, dizziness, and “floppy” legs, each improving with bedrest. After these episodes, she was diagnosed with migraines and was prescribed a prednisone taper and rizatriptan. The prednisone and rizatriptan did not improve her symptoms. She was additionally treated with intravenous medications including ketorolac, magnesium, prochlorperazine, metoclopramide, and sodium chloride which also did not provide any relief of her symptoms. She underwent a brain MRI with and without contrast and noncontrasted MRIs of her cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine. The imaging was unremarkable and showed no spinal epidural collection (Fig. 1).Fig. 1a-d Pre-procedure imaging: Brain MRI (a) and sagittal T2-weighted MRI of the cervical (b), lumbar (c), and thoracic (d) spine with no signs suggesting intracranial hypotension a-d Pre-procedure imaging: Brain MRI (a) and sagittal T2-weighted MRI of the cervical (b), lumbar (c), and thoracic (d) spine with no signs suggesting intracranial hypotension In the month prior to presenting in our clinic, the patient was experiencing debilitating daily headaches, whenever she was sitting or standing. The pain increased in severity and had become harder to relieve by lying down. Due to the severe pain, the patient had difficulty eating, drinking, sleeping, sitting, standing, walking, and attending school. This caused her to miss weeks of school. The patient’s mother consulted with multiple specialists around the country, and they raised concerns for a spontaneous CSF leak. Not being able to find timely care locally, she reached out to our team given our experience managing pediatric patients at the Children’s Hospital at Montefiore. At our clinic, the patient was evaluated for a CSF leak and admitted the same day. An MRI brain with and without contrast and an MRI of the cervical, lumbar, and thoracic spine without contrast were all unremarkable and showed no findings to suggest intracranial hypotension (Fig. 1). The patient did not receive a dynamic CT myelogram as her team thought it would be too low yield, because there was no evidence for CSF venous fistulas on MRI, and would therefore her to unnecessary radiation. However, due to her classic presentation of orthostatic headaches, the severity of her clinical experience, the lack of treatment response to prior medical therapy, and our team’s experience and comfort managing these patients, there was high clinical suspicion that she had SIH, and we embarked upon treatment the following day. She underwent a CT guided empiric, high-volume (~ 15 CC) epidural blood patch under monitored anesthesia care with no complications. The patient had a profound response to treatment with resolution of her headaches within days of treatment. She was able to resume normal daily activities like eating, drinking, sitting, standing and walking without pain. She returned to school and was able to read again without any difficulty. She is presently more than 4 months from her EBP and has no headaches or residual neurological symptoms.